



                               the SIGN of the four 

                                Arthur Conan Doyle 







                                 table of content 
         the Science of Deduction 
         the Statement of the Case 
         in Quest of a Solution 
         the Story of the Bald - head Man 
         the Tragedy of Pondicherry Lodge 
         Sherlock Holmes give a Demonstration 
         the Episode of the Barrel 
         the Baker Street Irregulars 
         a break in the Chain 
         the end of the Islander 
         the Great Agra Treasure 
         the Strange Story of Jonathan Small 















           CHAPTER -PRON- 
           the Science of Deduction 


      Sherlock Holmes take -PRON- bottle from the corner of the mantelpiece 
      and -PRON- hypodermic syringe from -PRON- neat morocco case . with -PRON- long , 
      white , nervous finger -PRON- adjust the delicate needle , and roll 
      back -PRON- left shirt - cuff . for some little time -PRON- eye rest 
      thoughtfully upon the sinewy forearm and wrist all dotted and scar 
      with innumerable puncture - mark . finally -PRON- thrust the sharp point 
      home , press down the tiny piston , and sink back into the 
      velvet - line arm - chair with a long sigh of satisfaction . 

      three time a day for many month -PRON- have witness this performance , 
      but custom have not reconcile -PRON- mind to -PRON- . on the contrary , from 
      day to day -PRON- have become more irritable at the sight , and -PRON- 
      conscience swell nightly within -PRON- at the thought that -PRON- have lack 
      the courage to protest . again and again -PRON- have register a vow that -PRON- 
      should deliver -PRON- soul upon the subject , but there be that in the 
      cool , nonchalant air of -PRON- companion which make -PRON- the last man with 
      whom one would care to take anything approach to a liberty . -PRON- 
      great power , -PRON- masterly manner , and the experience which -PRON- have have 
      of -PRON- many extraordinary quality , all make -PRON- diffident and 
      backward in cross -PRON- . 

      yet upon that afternoon , whether -PRON- be the Beaune which -PRON- have take 
      with -PRON- lunch , or the additional exasperation produce by the extreme 
      deliberation of -PRON- manner , -PRON- suddenly feel that -PRON- could hold out no 
      longer . 

      " which be -PRON- to - day ? " -PRON- asked,--"morphine or cocaine ? " 

      -PRON- raise -PRON- eye languidly from the old black - letter volume which 
      -PRON- have open . " -PRON- be cocaine , " -PRON- said,--"a seven - per - cent solution . 
      Would -PRON- care to try -PRON- ? " 

      " no , indeed , " -PRON- answer , brusquely . " -PRON- constitution have not get 
      over the afghan campaign yet . -PRON- can not afford to throw any extra 
      strain upon -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- smile at -PRON- vehemence . " perhaps -PRON- be right , Watson , " -PRON- say . 
      " -PRON- suppose that -PRON- influence be physically a bad one . -PRON- find -PRON- , 
      however , so transcendently stimulate and clarify to the mind 
      that -PRON- secondary action be a matter of small moment . " 

      " but consider ! " -PRON- say , earnestly . " count the cost ! -PRON- brain may , 
      as -PRON- say , be rouse and excited , but -PRON- be a pathological and 
      morbid process , which involve increase tissue - change and may at 
      last leave a permanent weakness . -PRON- know , too , what a black reaction 
      come upon -PRON- . surely the game be hardly worth the candle . why 
      should -PRON- , for a mere passing pleasure , risk the loss of those great 
      power with which -PRON- have be endow ?   remember that -PRON- speak not 
      only as one comrade to another , but as a medical man to one for whose 
      constitution -PRON- be to some extent answerable . " 

      -PRON- do not seem offend . on the contrary , -PRON- put -PRON- fingertip 
      together and lean -PRON- elbow on the arm of -PRON- chair , like one who 
      have a relish for conversation . 

      " -PRON- mind , " -PRON- say , " rebel at stagnation . give -PRON- problem , give -PRON- 
      work , give -PRON- the most abstruse cryptogram or the most intricate 
      analysis , and -PRON- be in -PRON- own proper atmosphere . -PRON- can dispense then 
      with artificial stimulant . but -PRON- abhor the dull routine of 
      existence . -PRON- crave for mental exaltation . that be why -PRON- have choose 
      -PRON- own particular profession,--or rather create -PRON- , for -PRON- be the 
      only one in the world . " 

      " the only unofficial detective ? " -PRON- say , raise -PRON- eyebrow . 

      " the only unofficial consulting detective , " -PRON- answer .   " -PRON- be the 
      last and high court of appeal in detection . when Gregson or 
      Lestrade or Athelney Jones be out of -PRON- depth -- which , by the 
      way , be -PRON- normal state -- the matter be lay before -PRON- . -PRON- examine 
      the datum , as an expert , and pronounce a specialist 's opinion . -PRON- claim 
      no credit in such case . -PRON- name figure in no newspaper . the work 
      -PRON- , the pleasure of find a field for -PRON- peculiar power , be -PRON- 
      high reward . but -PRON- have -PRON- have some experience of -PRON- 
      method of work in the Jefferson Hope case . " 

      " yes , indeed , " say -PRON- , cordially . " -PRON- be never so strike by anything 
      in -PRON- life . -PRON- even embody -PRON- in a small brochure with the somewhat 
      fantastic title of ' a Study in Scarlet . ' " 

      -PRON- shake -PRON- head sadly . " -PRON- glance over -PRON- , " say -PRON- .   " honestly , -PRON- 
      can not congratulate -PRON- upon -PRON- . detection be , or ought to be , an 
      exact science , and should be treat in the same cold and unemotional 
      manner . -PRON- have attempt to tinge -PRON- with romanticism , which 
      produce much the same effect as if -PRON- work a love - story or an 
      elopement into the fifth proposition of Euclid . " 

      " but the romance be there , " -PRON- remonstrate . " -PRON- could not tamper with 
      the fact . " 

      " some fact should be suppress , or at least a just sense of 
      proportion should be observe in treat -PRON- . the only point in the 
      case which deserve mention be the curious analytical reasoning from 
      effect to cause by which -PRON- succeed in unravel -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- be annoy at this criticism of a work which have be specially 
      design to please -PRON- . -PRON- confess , too , that -PRON- be irritate by the 
      egotism which seem to demand that every line of -PRON- pamphlet should 
      be devoted to -PRON- own special doing . more than once during the year 
      that -PRON- have live with -PRON- in Baker Street -PRON- have observe that a small 
      vanity underlay -PRON- companion 's quiet and didactic manner . -PRON- make no 
      remark , however , but sit nurse -PRON- wound leg . -PRON- have a Jezail 
      bullet through -PRON- some time before , and , though -PRON- do not prevent -PRON- 
      from walk , -PRON- ache wearily at every change of the weather . 

      " -PRON- practice have extend recently to the Continent , " say Holmes , 
      after a while , fill up -PRON- old brier - root pipe . " -PRON- be consult 
      last week by Francois Le Villard , who , as -PRON- probably know , have come 
      rather to the front lately in the french detective service . -PRON- have 
      all the celtic power of quick intuition , but -PRON- be deficient in the 
      wide range of exact knowledge which be essential to the high 
      development of -PRON- art . the case be concern with a will , and 
      possess some feature of interest . -PRON- be able to refer -PRON- to two 
      parallel case , the one at Riga in 1857 , and the other at St. Louis 
      in 1871 , which have suggest to -PRON- the true solution . here be the 
      letter which -PRON- have this morning acknowledge -PRON- assistance . " -PRON- 
      toss over , as -PRON- speak , a crumpled sheet of foreign notepaper . -PRON- 
      glance -PRON- eye down -PRON- , catch a profusion of note of admiration , 
      with stray magnifique , coup - de - maître and tour - de - force , all 
      testify to the ardent admiration of the Frenchman . 

      " -PRON- speak as a pupil to -PRON- master , " say I. 

      " oh , -PRON- rate -PRON- assistance too highly , " say Sherlock Holmes , 
      lightly . " -PRON- have considerable gift -PRON- . -PRON- possess two out of 
      the three quality necessary for the ideal detective . -PRON- have the 
      power of observation and that of deduction . -PRON- be only want in 
      knowledge ; and that may come in time . -PRON- be now translate -PRON- small 
      work into French . " 

      " -PRON- work ? " 

      " oh , do not -PRON- know ? " -PRON- cry , laugh . " yes , -PRON- have be guilty 
      of several monograph . -PRON- be all upon technical subject . here , 
      for example , be one ' upon the distinction between the Ashes of the 
      various Tobaccoes . ' in -PRON- -PRON- enumerate a hundred and forty form of 
      cigar- , cigarette- , and pipe - tobacco , with colored plate 
      illustrate the difference in the ash . -PRON- be a point which be 
      continually turn up in criminal trial , and which be sometimes of 
      supreme importance as a clue . if -PRON- can say definitely , for example , 
      that some murder have be do by a man who be smoke an indian 
      lunkah , -PRON- obviously narrow -PRON- field of search . to the train eye 
      there be as much difference between the black ash of a Trichinopoly 
      and the white fluff of bird's - eye as there be between a cabbage and a 
      potato . " 

      " -PRON- have an extraordinary genius for minutia , " -PRON- remark . 

      " -PRON- appreciate -PRON- importance . here be -PRON- monograph upon the tracing 
      of footstep , with some remark upon the use of plaster of Paris as 
      a preserver of impress . here , too , be a curious little work upon 
      the influence of a trade upon the form of the hand , with lithotype 
      of the hand of slater , sailor , corkcutter , compositor , weaver , 
      and diamond - polisher . that be a matter of great practical interest 
      to the scientific detective,--especially in case of unclaimed 
      body , or in discover the antecedent of criminal . but -PRON- weary 
      -PRON- with -PRON- hobby . " 

      " not at all , " -PRON- answer , earnestly . " -PRON- be of the great interest 
      to -PRON- , especially since -PRON- have have the opportunity of observe -PRON- 
      practical application of -PRON- . but -PRON- speak just now of observation 
      and deduction . surely the one to some extent imply the other . " 

      " why , hardly , " -PRON- answer , lean back luxuriously in -PRON- armchair , 
      and send up thick blue wreath from -PRON- pipe . " for example , 
      observation show -PRON- that -PRON- have be to the Wigmore Street 
      Post - Office this morning , but deduction let -PRON- know that when there 
      -PRON- dispatch a telegram . " 

      " right ! " say I. " right on both point ! but -PRON- confess that -PRON- do not 
      see how -PRON- arrive at -PRON- . -PRON- be a sudden impulse upon -PRON- part , and 
      -PRON- have mention -PRON- to no one . " 

      " -PRON- be simplicity -PRON- , " -PRON- remark , chuckle at -PRON- 
      surprise,--"so absurdly simple that an explanation be superfluous ; 
      and yet -PRON- may serve to define the limit of observation and of 
      deduction . observation tell -PRON- that -PRON- have a little reddish mould 
      adhere to -PRON- instep . just opposite the Seymour Street Office -PRON- 
      have take up the pavement and throw up some earth which lie in 
      such a way that -PRON- be difficult to avoid tread in -PRON- in enter . 
      the earth be of this peculiar reddish tint which be find , as far as 
      -PRON- know , nowhere else in the neighborhood . so much be observation . the 
      rest be deduction . " 

      " how , then , do -PRON- deduce the telegram ? " 

      " why , of course -PRON- know that -PRON- have not write a letter , since -PRON- sit 
      opposite to -PRON- all morning . -PRON- see also in -PRON- open desk there that 
      -PRON- have a sheet of stamp and a thick bundle of postcard .   what 
      could -PRON- go into the post - office for , then , but to send a wire ? 
      eliminate all other factor , and the one which remain must be the 
      truth . " 

      " in this case -PRON- certainly be so , " -PRON- reply , after a little thought . 
      " the thing , however , be , as -PRON- say , of the simple .   Would -PRON- 
      think -PRON- impertinent if -PRON- be to put -PRON- theory to a more severe 
      test ? " 

      " on the contrary , " -PRON- answer , " -PRON- would prevent -PRON- from take a 
      second dose of cocaine . -PRON- should be delighted to look into any 
      problem which -PRON- may submit to -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- have hear -PRON- say that -PRON- be difficult for a man to have any 
      object in daily use without leave the impress of -PRON- individuality 
      upon -PRON- in such a way that a train observer may read -PRON- . now , -PRON- 
      have here a watch which have recently come into -PRON- possession . Would 
      -PRON- have the kindness to let -PRON- have an opinion upon the character or 
      habit of the late owner ? " 

      -PRON- hand -PRON- over the watch with some slight feeling of amusement in 
      -PRON- heart , for the test be , as -PRON- think , an impossible one , and -PRON- 
      intend -PRON- as a lesson against the somewhat dogmatic tone which -PRON- 
      occasionally assume . -PRON- balance the watch in -PRON- hand , gaze hard 
      at the dial , open the back , and examine the work , first with -PRON- 
      naked eye and then with a powerful convex lens . -PRON- could hardly keep 
      from smile at -PRON- crestfallen face when -PRON- finally snap the case 
      to and hand -PRON- back . 

      " there be hardly any datum , " -PRON- remark . " the watch have be 
      recently clean , which rob -PRON- of -PRON- most suggestive fact . " 

      " -PRON- be right , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- be clean before be send to 
      -PRON- . " in -PRON- heart -PRON- accuse -PRON- companion of put forward a most 
      lame and impotent excuse to cover -PRON- failure . what data could -PRON- 
      expect from an uncleaned watch ? 

      " though unsatisfactory , -PRON- research have not be entirely barren , " -PRON- 
      observe , stare up at the ceiling with dreamy , lack - lustre eye . 
      " subject to -PRON- correction , -PRON- should judge that the watch belong 
      to -PRON- eld brother , who inherit -PRON- from -PRON- father . " 

      " that -PRON- gather , no doubt , from the H. W. upon the back ? " 

      " quite so . the W. suggest -PRON- own name . the date of the watch be 
      nearly fifty year back , and the initial be as old as the watch : so 
      -PRON- be make for the last generation . jewelry usually descent to the 
      eldest son , and -PRON- be most likely to have the same name as the 
      father . -PRON- father have , if -PRON- remember right , be dead many year . 
      -PRON- have , therefore , be in the hand of -PRON- eld brother . " 

      " right , so far , " say I. " anything else ? " 

      " -PRON- be a man of untidy habits,--very untidy and careless . -PRON- be 
      leave with good prospect , but -PRON- throw away -PRON- chance , live for 
      some time in poverty with occasional short interval of prosperity , 
      and finally , take to drink , -PRON- die . that be all -PRON- can gather . " 

      -PRON- spring from -PRON- chair and limp impatiently about the room with 
      considerable bitterness in -PRON- heart . 

      " this be unworthy of -PRON- , Holmes , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- could not have believe 
      that -PRON- would have descend to this . -PRON- have make inquire into 
      the history of -PRON- unhappy brother , and -PRON- now pretend to deduce this 
      knowledge in some fanciful way . -PRON- can not expect -PRON- to believe that 
      -PRON- have read all this from -PRON- old watch ! -PRON- be unkind , and , to 
      speak plainly , have a touch of charlatanism in -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- dear doctor , " say -PRON- , kindly , " pray accept -PRON- apology . 
      view the matter as an abstract problem , -PRON- have forget how 
      personal and painful a thing -PRON- may be to -PRON- . -PRON- assure -PRON- , 
      however , that -PRON- never even know that -PRON- have a brother until -PRON- 
      hand -PRON- the watch . " 

      " then how in the name of all that be wonderful do -PRON- get these 
      fact ? -PRON- be absolutely correct in every particular . " 

      " ah , that be good luck . -PRON- could only say what be the balance of 
      probability . -PRON- do not at all expect to be so accurate . " 

      " but -PRON- be not mere guess - work ? " 

      " no , no : -PRON- never guess . -PRON- be a shocking habit,--destructive to the 
      logical faculty . what seem strange to -PRON- be only so because -PRON- do 
      not follow -PRON- train of thought or observe the small fact upon which 
      large inference may depend . for example , -PRON- begin by state that 
      -PRON- brother be careless . when -PRON- observe the low part of that 
      watch - case -PRON- notice that -PRON- be not only dinte in two place , but 
      -PRON- be cut and mark all over from the habit of keep other hard 
      object , such as coin or key , in the same pocket . surely -PRON- be no 
      great feat to assume that a man who treat a fifty - guinea watch so 
      cavalierly must be a careless man . neither be -PRON- a very far - fetched 
      inference that a man who inherit one article of such value be pretty 
      well provide for in other respect . " 

      -PRON- nod , to show that -PRON- follow -PRON- reasoning . 

      " -PRON- be very customary for pawnbroker in England , when -PRON- take a 
      watch , to scratch the number of the ticket with a pin - point upon the 
      inside of the case . -PRON- be more handy than a label , as there be no 
      risk of the number be lose or transpose . there be no less than 
      four such number visible to -PRON- lens on the inside of this case . 
      inference,--that -PRON- brother be often at low water . secondary 
      inference,--that -PRON- have occasional burst of prosperity , or -PRON- could 
      not have redeem the pledge . finally , -PRON- ask -PRON- to look at the inner 
      plate , which contain the key - hole . look at the thousand of 
      scratch all round the hole,--mark where the key have slip . what 
      sober man 's key could have score those groove ? but -PRON- will never 
      see a drunkard 's watch without -PRON- . -PRON- wind -PRON- at night , and -PRON- 
      leave these trace of -PRON- unsteady hand . where be the mystery in all 
      this ? " 

      " -PRON- be as clear as daylight , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- regret the injustice 
      which -PRON- do -PRON- . -PRON- should have have more faith in -PRON- marvellous 
      faculty . May -PRON- ask whether -PRON- have any professional inquiry on foot 
      at present ? " 

      " none . hence the cocaine . -PRON- can not live without brain - work . what else 
      be there to live for ? stand at the window here . be ever such a 
      dreary , dismal , unprofitable world ? see how the yellow fog swirl 
      down the street and drift across the duncolored house . what could 
      be more hopelessly prosaic and material ? what be the use of have 
      power , doctor , when one have no field upon which to exert -PRON- ? crime 
      be commonplace , existence be commonplace , and no quality save those 
      which be commonplace have any function upon earth . " 

      -PRON- have open -PRON- mouth to reply to this tirade , when with a crisp 
      knock -PRON- landlady enter , bear a card upon the brass salver . 

      " a young lady for -PRON- , sir , " -PRON- say , address -PRON- companion . 

      " Miss Mary Morstan , " -PRON- read . " hum ! -PRON- have no recollection of the 
      name . ask the young lady to step up , Mrs. Hudson . do not go , doctor . -PRON- 
      should prefer that -PRON- remain . " 





           CHAPTER II 
           the Statement of the Case 


      Miss Morstan enter the room with a firm step and an outward 
      composure of manner . -PRON- be a blonde young lady , small , dainty , well 
      glove , and dress in the most perfect taste . there be , however , a 
      plainness and simplicity about -PRON- costume which bear with -PRON- a 
      suggestion of limited mean . the dress be a sombre grayish beige , 
      untrimmed and unbraided , and -PRON- wear a small turban of the same dull 
      hue , relieve only by a suspicion of white feather in the side . -PRON- 
      face have neither regularity of feature nor beauty of complexion , but 
      -PRON- expression be sweet and amiable , and -PRON- large blue eye be 
      singularly spiritual and sympathetic . in an experience of woman which 
      extend over many nation and three separate continent , -PRON- have never 
      look upon a face which give a clear promise of a refined and 
      sensitive nature . -PRON- could not but observe that as -PRON- take the seat 
      which Sherlock Holmes place for -PRON- , -PRON- lip tremble , -PRON- hand 
      quiver , and -PRON- show every sign of intense inward agitation . 

      " -PRON- have come to -PRON- , Mr. Holmes , " -PRON- say , " because -PRON- once enable 
      -PRON- employer , Mrs. Cecil Forrester , to unravel a little domestic 
      complication . -PRON- be much impress by -PRON- kindness and skill . " 

      " Mrs. Cecil Forrester , " -PRON- repeat thoughtfully . " -PRON- believe that -PRON- 
      be of some slight service to -PRON- . the case , however , as -PRON- remember 
      -PRON- , be a very simple one . " 

      " -PRON- do not think so . but at least -PRON- can not say the same of mine . 
      -PRON- can hardly imagine anything more strange , more utterly 
      inexplicable , than the situation in which -PRON- find -PRON- . " 

      Holmes rub -PRON- hand , and -PRON- eye glisten . -PRON- lean forward in 
      -PRON- chair with an expression of extraordinary concentration upon -PRON- 
      clear - cut , hawklike feature . " state -PRON- case , " say -PRON- , in brisk , 
      business tone . 

      -PRON- feel that -PRON- position be an embarrassing one . " -PRON- will , -PRON- be 
      sure , excuse -PRON- , " -PRON- say , rise from -PRON- chair . 

      to -PRON- surprise , the young lady hold up -PRON- gloved hand to detain -PRON- . 
      " if -PRON- friend , " -PRON- say , " would be good enough to stop , -PRON- may 
      be of inestimable service to -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- relapse into -PRON- chair . 

      " Briefly , " -PRON- continue , " the fact be these . -PRON- father be an 
      officer in an indian regiment who send -PRON- home when -PRON- be quite a 
      child . -PRON- mother be dead , and -PRON- have no relative in England . -PRON- be 
      place , however , in a comfortable boarding establishment at 
      Edinburgh , and there -PRON- remain until -PRON- be seventeen year of age . 
      in the year 1878 -PRON- father , who be senior captain of -PRON- regiment , 
      obtain twelve month ' leave and come home . -PRON- telegraph to -PRON- 
      from London that -PRON- have arrive all safe , and direct -PRON- to come 
      down at once , give the Langham Hotel as -PRON- address . -PRON- message , 
      as -PRON- remember , be full of kindness and love . on reach London -PRON- 
      drive to the Langham , and be inform that Captain Morstan be 
      stay there , but that -PRON- have go out the night before and have not 
      yet return . -PRON- wait all day without news of -PRON- . that night , on 
      the advice of the manager of the hotel , -PRON- communicate with the 
      police , and next morning -PRON- advertise in all the paper . -PRON- 
      inquiry let to no result ; and from that day to this no word have 
      ever be hear of -PRON- unfortunate father . -PRON- come home with -PRON- heart 
      full of hope , to find some peace , some comfort , and instead-- " -PRON- 
      put -PRON- hand to -PRON- throat , and a choking sob cut short the sentence . 

      " the date ? " ask Holmes , open -PRON- note - book . 

      " -PRON- disappear upon the 3d of December , 1878,--nearly ten year 
      ago . " 

      " -PRON- luggage ? " 

      " remain at the hotel . there be nothing in -PRON- to suggest a 
      clue,--some clothe , some book , and a considerable number of 
      curiosity from the Andaman Islands . -PRON- have be one of the officer 
      in charge of the convict - guard there . " 

      " have -PRON- any friend in town ? " 

      " only one that -PRON- know of,--major Sholto , of -PRON- own regiment , the 
      34th Bombay Infantry . the major have retire some little time before , 
      and live at Upper Norwood . -PRON- communicate with -PRON- , of course , but 
      -PRON- do not even know that -PRON- brother officer be in England . " 

      " a singular case , " remark Holmes . 

      " -PRON- have not yet describe to -PRON- the most singular part . about six 
      year ago -- to be exact , upon the 4th of May , 1882 - -an advertisement 
      appear in the Times ask for the address of Miss Mary Morstan and 
      state that -PRON- would be to -PRON- advantage to come forward . there be 
      no name or address append . -PRON- have at that time just enter the 
      family of Mrs. Cecil Forrester in the capacity of governess . by -PRON- 
      advice -PRON- publish -PRON- address in the advertisement column . the same 
      day there arrive through the post a small card - board box address 
      to -PRON- , which -PRON- find to contain a very large and lustrous pearl . no 
      word of writing be enclose . since then every year upon the same 
      date there have always appear a similar box , contain a similar 
      pearl , without any clue as to the sender . -PRON- have be pronounce 
      by an expert to be of a rare variety and of considerable value . -PRON- 
      can see for yourself that -PRON- be very handsome . " -PRON- open a 
      flat box as -PRON- speak , and show -PRON- six of the fine pearl that -PRON- 
      have ever see . 

      " -PRON- statement be most interesting , " say Sherlock Holmes .   " have 
      anything else occur to -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , and no later than to - day . that be why -PRON- have come to -PRON- .   this 
      morning -PRON- receive this letter , which -PRON- will perhaps read for 
      -PRON- . " 

      " thank -PRON- , " say Holmes . " the envelope too , please . postmark , 
      London , S.W. Date , July 7 . hum ! Man 's thumb - mark on corner,--probably 
      postman . good quality paper . envelope at sixpence a packet . 
      particular man in -PRON- stationery . no address . ' be at the third pillar 
      from the left outside the Lyceum Theatre to - night at seven o'clock . 
      if -PRON- be distrustful , bring two friend . -PRON- be a wrong woman , 
      and shall have justice . do not bring police . if -PRON- do , all will be 
      in vain . -PRON- unknown friend . ' well , really , this be a very pretty 
      little mystery .   what do -PRON- intend to do , Miss Morstan ? " 

      " that be exactly what -PRON- want to ask -PRON- . " 

      " then -PRON- shall most certainly go . -PRON- and -PRON- and -- yes , why , Dr. 
      Watson be the very man . -PRON- correspondent say two friend . -PRON- and -PRON- 
      have work together before . " 

      " but would -PRON- come ? " -PRON- ask , with something appeal in -PRON- voice 
      and expression . 

      " -PRON- should be proud and happy , " say -PRON- , fervently , " if -PRON- can be of any 
      service . " 

      " -PRON- be both very kind , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- have lead a retire life , 
      and have no friend whom -PRON- could appeal to . if -PRON- be here at six -PRON- 
      will do , -PRON- suppose ? " 

      " -PRON- must not be later , " say Holmes . " there be one other point , 
      however . be this handwriting the same as that upon the pearl - box 
      address ? " 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- here , " -PRON- answer , produce half a dozen piece of 
      paper . 

      " -PRON- be certainly a model client . -PRON- have the correct intuition . 
      let -PRON- see , now . " -PRON- spread out the paper upon the table , and give 
      little dart glance from one to the other . " -PRON- be disguise 
      hand , except the letter , " -PRON- say , presently , " but there can be no 
      question as to the authorship . see how the irrepressible Greek e will 
      break out , and see the twirl of the final s. -PRON- be undoubtedly by 
      the same person . -PRON- should not like to suggest false hope , Miss 
      Morstan , but be there any resemblance between this hand and that of 
      -PRON- father ? " 

      " nothing could be more unlike . " 

      " -PRON- expect to hear -PRON- say so . -PRON- shall look out for -PRON- , then , at 
      six . pray allow -PRON- to keep the paper . -PRON- may look into the matter 
      before then . -PRON- be only half - past three . au revoir , then . " 

      " Au revoir , " say -PRON- visitor , and , with a bright , kindly glance from 
      one to the other of -PRON- , -PRON- replace -PRON- pearl - box in -PRON- bosom and 
      hurry away . stand at the window , -PRON- watch -PRON- walking briskly 
      down the street , until the gray turban and white feather be but a 
      speck in the sombre crowd . 

      " what a very attractive woman ! " -PRON- exclaim , turn to -PRON- companion . 

      -PRON- have light -PRON- pipe again , and be lean back with drooping 
      eyelid . " be -PRON- ? " -PRON- say , languidly . " -PRON- do not observe . " 

      " -PRON- really be an automaton,--a calculating - machine ! " -PRON- cry . 
      " there be something positively inhuman in -PRON- at time . " 

      -PRON- smile gently . " -PRON- be of the first importance , " -PRON- say , " not to 
      allow -PRON- judgment to be bias by personal quality . a client be 
      to -PRON- a mere unit,--a factor in a problem . the emotional quality 
      be antagonistic to clear reasoning . -PRON- assure -PRON- that the most 
      win woman -PRON- ever know be hang for poison three little 
      child for -PRON- insurance - money , and the most repellant man of -PRON- 
      acquaintance be a philanthropist who have spend nearly a quarter of a 
      million upon the London poor . " 

      " in this case , however-- " 

      " -PRON- never make exception . an exception disprove the rule . have -PRON- 
      ever have occasion to study character in handwriting ? what do -PRON- make 
      of this fellow 's scribble ? " 

      " -PRON- be legible and regular , " -PRON- answer . " a man of business habit 
      and some force of character . " 

      Holmes shake -PRON- head . " look at -PRON- long letter , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- 
      hardly rise above the common herd . that d may be an a , and that l 
      an e. Men of character always differentiate -PRON- long letter , 
      however illegibly -PRON- may write . there be vacillation in -PRON- k 's and 
      self - esteem in -PRON- capital . -PRON- be go out now . -PRON- have some few 
      reference to make . let -PRON- recommend this book,--one of the most 
      remarkable ever pen . -PRON- be Winwood Reade 's Martyrdom of Man . -PRON- 
      shall be back in an hour . " 

      -PRON- sit in the window with the volume in -PRON- hand , but -PRON- thought be 
      far from the dare speculation of the writer . -PRON- mind run upon -PRON- 
      late visitor,--her smile , the deep rich tone of -PRON- voice , the 
      strange mystery which overhang -PRON- life . if -PRON- be seventeen at the 
      time of -PRON- father 's disappearance -PRON- must be seven - and - twenty 
      now,--a sweet age , when youth have lose -PRON- self - consciousness and 
      become a little sober by experience . so -PRON- sit and muse , until such 
      dangerous thought come into -PRON- head that -PRON- hurry away to -PRON- desk 
      and plunge furiously into the late treatise upon pathology . what 
      be -PRON- , an army surgeon with a weak leg and a weak banking - account , 
      that -PRON- should dare to think of such thing ? -PRON- be a unit , a 
      factor,--nothing more . if -PRON- future be black , -PRON- be better surely 
      to face -PRON- like a man than to attempt to brighten -PRON- by mere 
      will - o'-the - wisps of the imagination . 





           CHAPTER iii 
           in Quest of a Solution 


      -PRON- be half - past five before Holmes return . -PRON- be bright , eager , 
      and in excellent spirits,--a mood which in -PRON- case alternate with 
      fit of the black depression . 

      " there be no great mystery in this matter , " -PRON- say , take the cup 
      of tea which -PRON- have pour out for -PRON- . " the fact appear to admit of 
      only one explanation . " 

      " what ! -PRON- have solve -PRON- already ? " 

      " well , that would be too much to say . -PRON- have discover a suggestive 
      fact , that be all . -PRON- be , however , very suggestive . the detail be 
      still to be add . -PRON- have just find , on consult the back file of 
      the Times , that Major Sholto , of Upper Norword , late of the 34th 
      Bombay Infantry , die upon the 28th of April , 1882 . " 

      " -PRON- may be very obtuse , Holmes , but -PRON- fail to see what this suggest . " 

      " no ? -PRON- surprise -PRON- . look at -PRON- in this way , then . Captain Morstan 
      disappear . the only person in London whom -PRON- could have visit be 
      Major Sholto . major Sholto deny have hear that -PRON- be in London . 
      four year later Sholto die . within a week of -PRON- death Captain 
      Morstan 's daughter receive a valuable present , which be repeat 
      from year to year , and now culminate in a letter which describe -PRON- 
      as a wrong woman . what wrong can -PRON- refer to except this 
      deprivation of -PRON- father ? and why should the present begin 
      immediately after Sholto 's death , unless -PRON- be that Sholto 's heir 
      know something of the mystery and desire to make compensation ? have 
      -PRON- any alternative theory which will meet the fact ? " 

      " but what a strange compensation ! and how strangely make ! why , too , 
      should -PRON- write a letter now , rather than six year ago ? again , the 
      letter speak of give -PRON- justice . what justice can -PRON- have ? -PRON- be 
      too much to suppose that -PRON- father be still alive . there be no other 
      injustice in -PRON- case that -PRON- know of . " 

      " there be difficulty ; there be certainly difficulty , " say 
      Sherlock Holmes , pensively . " but -PRON- expedition of to - night will 
      solve -PRON- all . ah , here be a four - wheeler , and Miss Morstan be 
      inside . be -PRON- all ready ? then -PRON- have better go down , for -PRON- be a 
      little past the hour . " 

      -PRON- pick up -PRON- hat and -PRON- heavy stick , but -PRON- observe that Holmes 
      take -PRON- revolver from -PRON- drawer and slip -PRON- into -PRON- pocket . -PRON- 
      be clear that -PRON- think that -PRON- night 's work may be a serious 
      one . 

      Miss Morstan be muffle in a dark cloak , and -PRON- sensitive face be 
      compose , but pale . -PRON- must have be more than woman if -PRON- do not 
      feel some uneasiness at the strange enterprise upon which -PRON- be 
      embark , yet -PRON- self - control be perfect , and -PRON- readily answer 
      the few additional question which Sherlock Holmes put to -PRON- . 

      " Major Sholto be a very particular friend of papa 's , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- 
      letter be full of allusion to the major . -PRON- and papa be in 
      command of the troop at the Andaman Islands , so -PRON- be throw a 
      great deal together . by the way , a curious paper be find in papa 's 
      desk which no one could understand . -PRON- do not suppose that -PRON- be of the 
      slight importance , but -PRON- think -PRON- may care to see -PRON- , so -PRON- 
      bring -PRON- with -PRON- . -PRON- be here . " 

      Holmes unfold the paper carefully and smooth -PRON- out upon -PRON- 
      knee . -PRON- then very methodically examine -PRON- all over with -PRON- double 
      lens . 

      " -PRON- be paper of native indian manufacture , " -PRON- remark . " -PRON- have at 
      some time be pin to a board . the diagram upon -PRON- appear to be a 
      plan of part of a large building with numerous hall , corridor , and 
      passage . at one point be a small cross do in red ink , and above -PRON- 
      be ' 3.37 from left , ' in fade pencil - writing .   in the left - hand 
      corner be a curious hieroglyphic like four crosse in a line with 
      -PRON- arm touch . beside -PRON- be write , in very rough and coarse 
      character , ' the sign of the four,--Jonathan Small , Mahomet Singh , 
      Abdullah Khan , Dost Akbar . ' no , -PRON- confess that -PRON- do not see how this 
      bear upon the matter . yet -PRON- be evidently a document of importance . 
      -PRON- have be keep carefully in a pocket - book ; for the one side be as 
      clean as the other . " 

      " -PRON- be in -PRON- pocket - book that -PRON- find -PRON- . " 

      " preserve -PRON- carefully , then , Miss Morstan , for -PRON- may prove to be of 
      use to -PRON- . -PRON- begin to suspect that this matter may turn out to be 
      much deep and more subtle than -PRON- at first suppose . -PRON- must 
      reconsider -PRON- idea . " -PRON- lean back in the cab , and -PRON- could see by 
      -PRON- draw brow and -PRON- vacant eye that -PRON- be think intently . Miss 
      Morstan and -PRON- chat in an undertone about -PRON- present expedition 
      and -PRON- possible outcome , but -PRON- companion maintain -PRON- 
      impenetrable reserve until the end of -PRON- journey . 

      -PRON- be a September evening , and not yet seven o'clock , but the day 
      have be a dreary one , and a dense drizzly fog lie low upon the great 
      city . mud - color cloud droop sadly over the muddy street . down 
      the Strand the lamp be but misty splotch of diffuse light which 
      throw a feeble circular glimmer upon the slimy pavement . the yellow 
      glare from the shop - window stream out into the steamy , vaporous 
      air , and throw a murky , shift radiance across the crowded 
      thoroughfare . there be , to -PRON- mind , something eerie and ghost - like 
      in the endless procession of face which flit across these narrow 
      bar of light,--sad face and glad , haggard and merry . like all human 
      kind , -PRON- flit from the gloom into the light , and so back into 
      the gloom once more . -PRON- be not subject to impression , but the dull , 
      heavy evening , with the strange business upon which -PRON- be engage , 
      combine to make -PRON- nervous and depressed . -PRON- could see from Miss 
      Morstan 's manner that -PRON- be suffer from the same feeling . Holmes 
      alone could rise superior to petty influence . -PRON- hold -PRON- open 
      note - book upon -PRON- knee , and from time to time -PRON- jot down figure 
      and memorandum in the light of -PRON- pocket - lantern . 

      at the Lyceum Theatre the crowd be already thick at the 
      side - entrance . in front a continuous stream of hansom and 
      four - wheeler be rattle up , discharge -PRON- cargo of 
      shirt - front man and beshawle , bediamonde woman . -PRON- have hardly 
      reach the third pillar , which be -PRON- rendezvous , before a small , 
      dark , brisk man in the dress of a coachman accost -PRON- . 

      " be -PRON- the party who come with Miss Morstan ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- be Miss Morstan , and these two gentleman be -PRON- friend , " say 
      -PRON- . 

      -PRON- bend a pair of wonderfully penetrate and question eye upon 
      -PRON- . " -PRON- will excuse -PRON- , miss , " -PRON- say with a certain dogged manner , 
      " but -PRON- be to ask -PRON- to give -PRON- -PRON- word that neither of -PRON- 
      companion be a police - officer . " 

      " -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- word on that , " -PRON- answer . 

      -PRON- give a shrill whistle , on which a street Arab lead across a 
      four - wheeler and open the door . the man who have address -PRON- 
      mount to the box , while -PRON- take -PRON- place inside . -PRON- have hardly 
      do so before the driver whip up -PRON- horse , and -PRON- plunge away 
      at a furious pace through the foggy street . 

      the situation be a curious one . -PRON- be drive to an unknown place , 
      on an unknown errand . yet -PRON- invitation be either a complete 
      hoax,--which be an inconceivable hypothesis,--or else -PRON- have good 
      reason to think that important issue may hang upon -PRON- journey . 
      Miss Morstan 's demeanor be as resolute and collect as ever . -PRON- 
      endeavor to cheer and amuse -PRON- by reminiscence of -PRON- adventure 
      in Afghanistan ; but , to tell the truth , -PRON- be -PRON- so excited at 
      -PRON- situation and so curious as to -PRON- destination that -PRON- story 
      be slightly involve . to this day -PRON- declare that -PRON- tell -PRON- one 
      move anecdote as to how a musket look into -PRON- tent at the dead of 
      night , and how -PRON- fire a double - barrelled tiger cub at -PRON- . at first -PRON- 
      have some idea as to the direction in which -PRON- be drive ; but soon , 
      what with -PRON- pace , the fog , and -PRON- own limited knowledge of London , 
      -PRON- lose -PRON- bearing , and know nothing , save that -PRON- seem to be go 
      a very long way . Sherlock Holmes be never at fault , however , and -PRON- 
      mutter the name as the cab rattle through square and in and out 
      by tortuous by - street . 

      " Rochester Row , " say -PRON- . " now Vincent Square . now -PRON- come out on the 
      Vauxhall Bridge Road . -PRON- be make for the Surrey side , apparently . 
      yes , -PRON- think so . now -PRON- be on the bridge . -PRON- can catch glimpse 
      of the river . " 

      -PRON- do indeed bet a fleeting view of a stretch of the Thames with the 
      lamp shine upon the broad , silent water ; but -PRON- cab dash on , 
      and be soon involve in a labyrinth of street upon the other side . 

      " Wordsworth Road , " say -PRON- companion . " Priory Road . Lark Hall Lane . 
      Stockwell Place . Robert Street . Cold Harbor Lane . -PRON- quest do not 
      appear to take -PRON- to very fashionable region . " 

      -PRON- have , indeed , reach a questionable and forbidding neighborhood . 
      long line of dull brick house be only relieve by the coarse 
      glare and tawdry brilliancy of public house at the corner . then come 
      row of two - storied villas each with a fronting of miniature garden , 
      and then again interminable line of new stare brick 
      buildings,--the monster tentacle which the giant city be throw 
      out into the country . at last the cab draw up at the third house in a 
      new terrace . none of the other house be inhabit , and that at 
      which -PRON- stop be as dark as -PRON- neighbor , save for a single 
      glimmer in the kitchen window . on -PRON- knocking , however , the door be 
      instantly throw open by a Hindoo servant clothe in a yellow turban , 
      white loose - fit clothe , and a yellow sash . there be something 
      strangely incongruous in this oriental figure frame in the 
      commonplace door - way of a third - rate suburban dwelling - house . 

      " the Sahib await -PRON- , " say -PRON- , and even as -PRON- speak there come a 
      high piping voice from some inner room . " show -PRON- in to -PRON- , 
      khitmutgar , " -PRON- cry . " show -PRON- straight in to -PRON- . " 





           CHAPTER IV 
           the Story of the Bald - Headed Man 


      -PRON- follow the Indian down a sordid and common passage , ill lit and 
      worse furnish , until -PRON- come to a door upon the right , which -PRON- 
      throw open . a blaze of yellow light stream out upon -PRON- , and in the 
      centre of the glare there stand a small man with a very high head , a 
      bristle of red hair all round the fringe of -PRON- , and a bald , shine 
      scalp which shoot out from among -PRON- like a mountain - peak from 
      fir - tree . -PRON- writhe -PRON- hand together as -PRON- stand , and -PRON- 
      feature be in a perpetual jerk , now smile , now scowl , but 
      never for an instant in repose . nature have give -PRON- a pendulous lip , 
      and a too visible line of yellow and irregular tooth , which -PRON- strove 
      feebly to conceal by constantly pass -PRON- hand over the low part 
      of -PRON- face . in spite of -PRON- obtrusive baldness , -PRON- give the 
      impression of youth . in point of fact -PRON- have just turn -PRON- 
      thirtieth year . 

      " -PRON- servant , Miss Morstan , " -PRON- keep repeat , in a thin , high 
      voice . " -PRON- servant , gentleman . pray step into -PRON- little sanctum . a 
      small place , miss , but furnish to -PRON- own liking .   an oasis of art 
      in the howl desert of South London . " 

      -PRON- be all astonish by the appearance of the apartment into which 
      -PRON- invite -PRON- . in that sorry house -PRON- look as out of place as a 
      diamond of the first water in a setting of brass . the rich and 
      glossy of curtain and tapestry drape the wall , loop back 
      here and there to expose some richly - mount painting or oriental 
      vase . the carpet be of amber - and - black , so soft and so thick that 
      the foot sink pleasantly into -PRON- , as into a bed of mos . two great 
      tiger - skin throw athwart -PRON- increase the suggestion of Eastern 
      luxury , as do a huge hookah which stand upon a mat in the corner . a 
      lamp in the fashion of a silver dove be hang from an almost 
      invisible golden wire in the centre of the room . as -PRON- burn -PRON- 
      fill the air with a subtle and aromatic odor . 

      " Mr. Thaddeus Sholto , " say the little man , still jerk and 
      smile . " that be -PRON- name . -PRON- be Miss Morstan , of course . and these 
      gentlemen-- " 

      " this be Mr. Sherlock Holmes , and this be Dr. Watson . " 

      " a doctor , eh ? " cry -PRON- , much excited . " have -PRON- -PRON- stethoscope ? 
      may -PRON- ask -PRON- -- would -PRON- have the kindness ? -PRON- have grave doubt as 
      to -PRON- mitral valve , if -PRON- would be so very good . the aortic -PRON- may 
      rely upon , but -PRON- should value -PRON- opinion upon the mitral . " 

      -PRON- listen to -PRON- heart , as request , but be unable to find 
      anything amiss , save indeed that -PRON- be in an ecstasy of fear , for -PRON- 
      shiver from head to foot . " -PRON- appear to be normal , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- 
      have no cause for uneasiness . " 

      " -PRON- will excuse -PRON- anxiety , Miss Morstan , " -PRON- remark , airily .   " -PRON- 
      be a great sufferer , and -PRON- have long have suspicion as to that valve . 
      -PRON- be delighted to hear that -PRON- be unwarranted . have -PRON- father , 
      Miss Morstan , refrain from throw a strain upon -PRON- heart , -PRON- 
      may have be alive now . " 

      -PRON- could have strike the man across the face , so hot be -PRON- at this 
      callous and off - hand reference to so delicate a matter . Miss Morstan 
      sit down , and -PRON- face grow white to the lip . " -PRON- know in -PRON- heart 
      that -PRON- be dead , " say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- can give -PRON- every information , " say -PRON- , " and , what be more , -PRON- 
      can do -PRON- justice ; and -PRON- will , too , whatever Brother Bartholomew may 
      say . -PRON- be so glad to have -PRON- friend here , not only as an escort to 
      -PRON- , but also as witness to what -PRON- be about to do and say . the 
      three of -PRON- can show a bold front to Brother Bartholomew . but let -PRON- 
      have no outsiders,--no police or official . -PRON- can settle everything 
      satisfactorily among -PRON- , without any interference . nothing 
      would annoy Brother Bartholomew more than any publicity . " -PRON- sit down 
      upon a low settee and blink at -PRON- inquiringly with -PRON- weak , watery 
      blue eye . 

      " for -PRON- part , " say Holmes , " whatever -PRON- may choose to say will go 
      no further . " 

      -PRON- nod to show -PRON- agreement . 

      " that be well ! that be well ! " say -PRON- . " May -PRON- offer -PRON- a glass of 
      Chianti , Miss Morstan ? or of Tokay ? -PRON- keep no other wine . Shall -PRON- 
      open a flask ? no ? well , then , -PRON- trust that -PRON- have no objection to 
      tobacco - smoke , to the mild balsamic odor of the eastern tobacco . -PRON- be 
      a little nervous , and -PRON- find -PRON- hookah an invaluable sedative . " -PRON- 
      apply a taper to the great bowl , and the smoke bubble merrily 
      through the rose - water . -PRON- sit all three in a semicircle , with -PRON- 
      head advanced , and -PRON- chin upon -PRON- hand , while the strange , 
      jerky little fellow , with -PRON- high , shine head , puff uneasily in 
      the centre . 

      " when -PRON- first determine to make this communication to -PRON- , " say -PRON- , 
      " -PRON- may have give -PRON- -PRON- address , but -PRON- fear that -PRON- may 
      disregard -PRON- request and bring unpleasant people with -PRON- . -PRON- take the 
      liberty , therefore , of make an appointment in such a way that -PRON- 
      man Williams may be able to see -PRON- first . -PRON- have complete 
      confidence in -PRON- discretion , and -PRON- have order , if -PRON- be 
      dissatisfy , to proceed no further in the matter . -PRON- will excuse 
      these precaution , but -PRON- be a man of somewhat retire , and -PRON- may 
      even say refined , taste , and there be nothing more unaesthetic than 
      a policeman . -PRON- have a natural shrinking from all form of rough 
      materialism . -PRON- seldom come in contact with the rough crowd . -PRON- live , 
      as -PRON- see , with some little atmosphere of elegance around -PRON- . -PRON- may 
      call -PRON- a patron of the art . -PRON- be -PRON- weakness . the landscape be 
      a genuine Corot , and , though a connoisseur may perhaps throw a 
      doubt upon that Salvator Rosa , there can not be the least question 
      about the Bouguereau . -PRON- be partial to the modern french school . " 

      " -PRON- will excuse -PRON- , Mr. Sholto , " say Miss Morstan , " but -PRON- be here 
      at -PRON- request to learn something which -PRON- desire to tell -PRON- . -PRON- be 
      very late , and -PRON- should desire the interview to be as short as 
      possible . " 

      " at the good -PRON- must take some time , " -PRON- answer ; " for -PRON- shall 
      certainly have to go to Norwood and see Brother Bartholomew . -PRON- shall 
      all go and try if -PRON- can get the well of Brother Bartholomew . -PRON- be 
      very angry with -PRON- for take the course which have seem right to 
      -PRON- . -PRON- have quite high word with -PRON- last night . -PRON- can not imagine 
      what a terrible fellow -PRON- be when -PRON- be angry . " 

      " if -PRON- be to go to Norwood -PRON- would perhaps be as well to start at 
      once , " -PRON- venture to remark . 

      -PRON- laugh until -PRON- ear be quite red . " that would hardly do , " -PRON- 
      cry . " -PRON- do not know what -PRON- would say if -PRON- bring -PRON- in that 
      sudden way . no , -PRON- must prepare -PRON- by show -PRON- how -PRON- all stand to 
      each other . in the first place , -PRON- must tell -PRON- that there be 
      several point in the story of which -PRON- be -PRON- ignorant . -PRON- can only 
      lay the fact before -PRON- as far as -PRON- know -PRON- -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- father be , as -PRON- may have guess , Major John Sholto , once of 
      the indian army . -PRON- retire some eleven year ago , and come to live 
      at Pondicherry Lodge in Upper Norwood . -PRON- have prosper in India , and 
      bring back with -PRON- a considerable sum of money , a large collection 
      of valuable curiosity , and a staff of native servant . with these 
      advantage -PRON- buy -PRON- a house , and live in great luxury . -PRON- 
      twin - brother Bartholomew and -PRON- be the only child . 

      " -PRON- very well remember the sensation which be cause by the 
      disappearance of Captain Morstan . -PRON- read the detail in the paper , 
      and , know that -PRON- have be a friend of -PRON- father 's , -PRON- discuss 
      the case freely in -PRON- presence . -PRON- use to join in -PRON- speculation 
      as to what could have happen . never for an instant do -PRON- suspect 
      that -PRON- have the whole secret hide in -PRON- own breast,--that of all 
      man -PRON- alone know the fate of Arthur Morstan . 

      " -PRON- do know , however , that some mystery -- some positive 
      danger -- overhung -PRON- father . -PRON- be very fearful of go out alone , 
      and -PRON- always employ two prize - fighter to act as porter at 
      Pondicherry Lodge . Williams , who drive -PRON- to - night , be one of -PRON- . 
      -PRON- be once light - weight champion of England . -PRON- father would never 
      tell -PRON- what -PRON- be -PRON- fear , but -PRON- have a most marked aversion to 
      man with wooden leg . on one occasion -PRON- actually fire -PRON- revolver 
      at a wooden - legged man , who prove to be a harmless tradesman 
      canvass for order . -PRON- have to pay a large sum to hush the matter 
      up . -PRON- brother and -PRON- use to think this a mere whim of -PRON- father 's , 
      but event have since lead -PRON- to change -PRON- opinion . 

      " early in 1882 -PRON- father receive a letter from India which be a 
      great shock to -PRON- . -PRON- nearly faint at the breakfast - table when -PRON- 
      open -PRON- , and from that day -PRON- sicken to -PRON- death . what be in 
      the letter -PRON- could never discover , but -PRON- could see as -PRON- hold -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be short and write in a scrawling hand . -PRON- have suffer 
      for year from an enlarged spleen , but -PRON- now become rapidly bad , 
      and towards the end of April -PRON- be inform that -PRON- be beyond all 
      hope , and that -PRON- wish to make a last communication to -PRON- . 

      " when -PRON- enter -PRON- room -PRON- be prop up with pillow and 
      breathe heavily . -PRON- beseech -PRON- to lock the door and to come upon 
      either side of the bed . then , grasp -PRON- hand , -PRON- make a 
      remarkable statement to -PRON- , in a voice which be break as much by 
      emotion as by pain . -PRON- shall try and give -PRON- to -PRON- in -PRON- own very 
      word . 

      " ' -PRON- have only one thing , ' -PRON- say , ' which weigh upon -PRON- mind at this 
      supreme moment . -PRON- be -PRON- treatment of poor Morstan 's orphan . the 
      cursed greed which have be -PRON- besetting sin through life have 
      withhold from -PRON- the treasure , half at least of which should have 
      be -PRON- . and yet -PRON- have make no use of -PRON- myself,--so blind and 
      foolish a thing be avarice . the mere feeling of possession have be 
      so dear to -PRON- that -PRON- could not bear to share -PRON- with another . see 
      that chaplet dip with pearl beside the quinine - bottle . even that 
      -PRON- could not bear to part with , although -PRON- have get -PRON- out with the 
      design of send -PRON- to -PRON- . -PRON- , -PRON- son , will give -PRON- a fair share 
      of the Agra treasure . but send -PRON- nothing -- not even the 
      chaplet -- until -PRON- be go . after all , man have be as bad as this and 
      have recover . 

      " ' -PRON- will tell -PRON- how Morstan die , ' -PRON- continue . ' -PRON- have suffer 
      for year from a weak heart , but -PRON- conceal -PRON- from every one . -PRON- 
      alone know -PRON- . when in India , -PRON- and -PRON- , through a remarkable chain of 
      circumstance , come into possession of a considerable treasure . -PRON- 
      bring -PRON- over to England , and on the night of Morstan 's arrival -PRON- 
      come straight over here to claim -PRON- share . -PRON- walk over from the 
      station , and be admit by -PRON- faithful Lal Chowdar , who be now 
      dead . Morstan and -PRON- have a difference of opinion as to the division of 
      the treasure , and -PRON- come to heated word . Morstan have spring out of 
      -PRON- chair in a paroxysm of anger , when -PRON- suddenly press -PRON- hand 
      to -PRON- side , -PRON- face turn a dusky hue , and -PRON- fall backwards , 
      cut -PRON- head against the corner of the treasure - chest . when -PRON- 
      stoop over -PRON- -PRON- find , to -PRON- horror , that -PRON- be dead . 

      " ' for a long time -PRON- sit half distracted , wonder what -PRON- should do . 
      -PRON- first impulse be , of course , to call for assistance ; but -PRON- could 
      not but recognize that there be every chance that -PRON- would be accuse 
      of -PRON- murder . -PRON- death at the moment of a quarrel , and the gash in 
      -PRON- head , would be black against -PRON- . again , an official inquiry could 
      not be make without bring out some fact about the treasure , which 
      -PRON- be particularly anxious to keep secret . -PRON- have tell -PRON- that no 
      soul upon earth know where -PRON- have go . there seem to be no 
      necessity why any soul ever should know . 

      " ' -PRON- be still ponder over the matter , when , look up , -PRON- see -PRON- 
      servant , Lal Chowdar , in the doorway . -PRON- steal in and bolt the door 
      behind -PRON- . " do not fear , Sahib , " -PRON- say . " no one nee know that -PRON- 
      have kill -PRON- . let -PRON- hide -PRON- away , and who be the wise ? " " -PRON- do 
      not kill -PRON- , " say I. Lal Chowdar shake -PRON- head and smile . " -PRON- 
      hear -PRON- all , Sahib , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- hear -PRON- quarrel , and -PRON- hear the 
      blow . but -PRON- lip be seal . all be asleep in the house . let -PRON- put 
      -PRON- away together . " that be enough to decide meet . if -PRON- own servant 
      could not believe -PRON- innocence , how could -PRON- hope to make -PRON- good 
      before twelve foolish tradesman in a jury - box ? Lal Chowdar and -PRON- 
      dispose of the body that night , and within a few day the London 
      paper be full of the mysterious disappearance of Captain Morstan . 
      -PRON- will see from what -PRON- say that -PRON- can hardly be blame in the 
      matter . -PRON- fault lie in the fact that -PRON- conceal not only the 
      body , but also the treasure , and that -PRON- have cling to Morstan 's share 
      as well as to -PRON- own . -PRON- wish -PRON- , therefore , to make restitution . put 
      -PRON- ear down to -PRON- mouth . the treasure be hide in -- at this 
      instant a horrible change come over -PRON- expression ; -PRON- eye stare 
      wildly , -PRON- jaw drop , and -PRON- yell , in a voice which -PRON- can never 
      forget , ' keep -PRON- out ! for Christ 's sake keep -PRON- out ' ! -PRON- both 
      stare round at the window behind -PRON- upon which -PRON- gaze be fix . a 
      face be look in at -PRON- out of the darkness . -PRON- could see the 
      whiten of the nose where -PRON- be press against the glass . -PRON- be 
      a bearded , hairy face , with wild cruel eye and an expression of 
      concentrated malevolence . -PRON- brother and -PRON- rush towards the window , 
      but the man be go . when -PRON- return to -PRON- father -PRON- head have 
      drop and -PRON- pulse have cease to beat . 

      " -PRON- search the garden that night , but find no sign of the 
      intruder , save that just under the window a single footmark be 
      visible in the flower - bed . but for that one trace , -PRON- may have 
      think that -PRON- imagination have conjure up that wild , fierce face . 
      -PRON- soon , however , have another and a more striking proof that there 
      be secret agency at work all round -PRON- . the window of -PRON- father 's 
      room be find open in the morning , -PRON- cupboard and box have be 
      rifle , and upon -PRON- chest be fix a torn piece of paper , with the 
      word ' the sign of the four ' scrawl across -PRON- . what the phrase 
      mean , or who -PRON- secret visitor may have be , -PRON- never know . as far 
      as -PRON- can judge , none of -PRON- father 's property have be actually 
      steal , though everything have be turn out . -PRON- brother and -PRON- 
      naturally associate this peculiar incident with the fear which 
      haunt -PRON- father during -PRON- life ; but -PRON- be still a complete mystery 
      to -PRON- . " 

      the little man stop to relight -PRON- hookah and puff thoughtfully 
      for a few moment . -PRON- have all sit absorb , listen to -PRON- 
      extraordinary narrative . at the short account of -PRON- father 's death 
      Miss Morstan have turn deadly white , and for a moment -PRON- fear that 
      -PRON- be about to faint . -PRON- rally however , on drink a glass of 
      water which -PRON- quietly pour out for -PRON- from a venetian carafe upon 
      the side - table . Sherlock Holmes lean back in -PRON- chair with an 
      abstract expression and the lid draw low over -PRON- glitter 
      eye . as -PRON- glance at -PRON- -PRON- could not but think how on that very day 
      -PRON- have complain bitterly of the commonplaceness of life . here at 
      least be a problem which would tax -PRON- sagacity to the utmost . Mr. 
      Thaddeus Sholto look from one to the other of -PRON- with an obvious 
      pride at the effect which -PRON- story have produce , and then continue 
      between the puff of -PRON- overgrow pipe . 

      " -PRON- brother and -PRON- , " say -PRON- , " be , as -PRON- may imagine , much excited 
      as to the treasure which -PRON- father have speak of . for week and for 
      month -PRON- dig and delve in every part of the garden , without 
      discover -PRON- whereabouts . -PRON- be madden to think that the 
      hiding - place be on -PRON- very lip at the moment that -PRON- die . -PRON- 
      could judge the splendor of the miss rich by the chaplet which 
      -PRON- have take out . over this chaplet -PRON- brother Bartholomew and -PRON- have 
      some little discussion . the pearl be evidently of great value , and 
      -PRON- be averse to part with -PRON- , for , between friend , -PRON- brother be 
      -PRON- a little inclined to -PRON- father 's fault . -PRON- think , too , that 
      if -PRON- part with the chaplet -PRON- may give rise to gossip and 
      finally bring -PRON- into trouble . -PRON- be all that -PRON- could do to persuade 
      -PRON- to let -PRON- find out Miss Morstan 's address and send -PRON- a detached 
      pearl at fix interval , so that at least -PRON- may never feel 
      destitute . " 

      " -PRON- be a kindly think , " say -PRON- companion , earnestly . " -PRON- be 
      extremely good of -PRON- . " 

      the little man wave -PRON- hand deprecatingly . " -PRON- be -PRON- trustee , " 
      -PRON- say . " that be the view which -PRON- take of -PRON- , though Brother 
      Bartholomew could not altogether see -PRON- in that light . -PRON- have plenty 
      of money -PRON- . -PRON- desire no more . besides , -PRON- would have be 
      such bad taste to have treat a young lady in so scurvy a fashion . 
      ' Le mauvais goût mène au crime . ' the French have a very neat way of 
      put these thing . -PRON- difference of opinion on this subject go 
      so far that -PRON- think -PRON- best to set up room for -PRON- : so -PRON- leave 
      Pondicherry Lodge , take the old khitmutgar and Williams with -PRON- . 
      yesterday , however , -PRON- learn that an event of extreme importance have 
      occur . the treasure have be discover . -PRON- instantly communicate 
      with Miss Morstan , and -PRON- only remain for -PRON- to drive out to Norwood 
      and demand -PRON- share . -PRON- explain -PRON- view last night to Brother 
      Bartholomew : so -PRON- shall be expect , if not welcome , visitor . " 

      Mr. Thaddeus Sholto cease , and sit twitch on -PRON- luxurious 
      settee . -PRON- all remain silent , with -PRON- thought upon the new 
      development which the mysterious business have take . Holmes be the 
      first to spring to -PRON- foot . 

      " -PRON- have do well , sir , from first to last , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be 
      possible that -PRON- may be able to make -PRON- some small return by 
      throw some light upon that which be still dark to -PRON- . but , as 
      Miss Morstan remark just now , -PRON- be late , and -PRON- have best put the 
      matter through without delay . " 

      -PRON- new acquaintance very deliberately coil up the tube of -PRON- 
      hookah , and produce from behind a curtain a very long befrogge 
      topcoat with Astrakhan collar and cuff . this -PRON- button tightly up , 
      in spite of the extreme closeness of the night , and finish -PRON- 
      attire by put on a rabbit - skin cap with hang lappet which 
      cover the ear , so that no part of -PRON- be visible save -PRON- mobile 
      and peaky face . " -PRON- health be somewhat fragile , " -PRON- remark , as -PRON- 
      lead the way down the passage . " -PRON- be compel to be a 
      valetudinarian . " 

      -PRON- cab be await -PRON- outside , and -PRON- programme be evidently 
      prearrange , for the driver start off at once at a rapid pace . 
      Thaddeus Sholto talk incessantly , in a voice which rise high above 
      the rattle of the wheel . 

      " Bartholomew be a clever fellow , " say -PRON- . " how do -PRON- think -PRON- find 
      out where the treasure be ? -PRON- have come to the conclusion that -PRON- be 
      somewhere indoor : so -PRON- work out all the cubic space of the house , 
      and make measurement everywhere , so that not one inch should be 
      unaccounted for . among other thing , -PRON- find that the height of the 
      building be seventy - four foot , but on add together the height of 
      all the separate room , and make every allowance for the space 
      between , which -PRON- ascertain by boring , -PRON- could not bring the 
      total to more than seventy foot . there be four foot unaccounted 
      for . these could only be at the top of the building . -PRON- knock a 
      hole , therefore , in the lath - and - plaster ceiling of the high room , 
      and there , sure enough , -PRON- come upon another little garret above -PRON- , 
      which have be seal up and be know to no one . in the centre stand 
      the treasure - chest , rest upon two rafter . -PRON- lower -PRON- through 
      the hole , and there -PRON- lie . -PRON- compute the value of the jewel at 
      not less than half a million sterling . " 

      at the mention of this gigantic sum -PRON- all stare at one another 
      open - eyed . Miss Morstan , could -PRON- secure -PRON- right , would change 
      from a needy governess to the rich heiress in England . surely -PRON- 
      be the place of a loyal friend to rejoice at such news ; yet -PRON- be 
      ashamed to say that selfishness take -PRON- by the soul , and that -PRON- 
      heart turn as heavy as lead within -PRON- . -PRON- stammer out some few 
      halt word of congratulation , and then sit downcast , with -PRON- head 
      droop , deaf to the babble of -PRON- new acquaintance . -PRON- be clearly a 
      confirm hypochondriac , and -PRON- be dreamily conscious that -PRON- be 
      pour forth interminable train of symptom , and implore 
      information as to the composition and action of innumerable quack 
      nostrum , some of which -PRON- bear about in a leather case in -PRON- 
      pocket . -PRON- trust that -PRON- may not remember any of the answer which -PRON- 
      give -PRON- that night . Holmes declare that -PRON- overhear -PRON- caution -PRON- 
      against the great danger of take more than two drop of castor oil , 
      while -PRON- recommend strychnine in large dose as a sedative . however 
      that may be , -PRON- be certainly relieve when -PRON- cab pull up with a 
      jerk and the coachman spring down to open the door . 

      " this , Miss Morstan , be Pondicherry Lodge , " say Mr. Thaddeus Sholto , 
      as -PRON- hand -PRON- out . 





           CHAPTER V 
           the Tragedy of Pondicherry Lodge 


      -PRON- be nearly eleven o'clock when -PRON- reach this final stage of -PRON- 
      night 's adventure . -PRON- have leave the damp fog of the great city behind 
      -PRON- , and the night be fairly fine . a warm wind blow from the 
      westward , and heavy cloud move slowly across the sky , with half a 
      moon peep occasionally through the rift . -PRON- be clear enough to 
      see for some distance , but Thaddeus Sholto take down one of the 
      side - lamp from the carriage to give -PRON- a well light upon -PRON- way . 

      Pondicherry Lodge stand in -PRON- own ground , and be girt round with a 
      very high stone wall top with broken glass . a single narrow 
      iron - clamp door form the only mean of entrance . on this -PRON- 
      guide knock with a peculiar postman - like rat - tat . 

      " who be there ? " cry a gruff voice from within . 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- , McMurdo . -PRON- surely know -PRON- knock by this time . " 

      there be a grumble sound and a clanking and jarring of key . the 
      door swing heavily back , and a short , deep - cheste man stand in the 
      opening , with the yellow light of the lantern shine upon -PRON- 
      protruded face and twinkle distrustful eye . 

      " that -PRON- , Mr. Thaddeus ? but who be the other ? -PRON- have no order 
      about -PRON- from the master . " 

      " no , McMurdo ? -PRON- surprise -PRON- ! -PRON- tell -PRON- brother last night that -PRON- 
      should bring some friend . 

      " -PRON- be not be out o ' -PRON- room to - day , Mr. Thaddeus , and -PRON- have no 
      order . -PRON- know very well that -PRON- must stick to regulation . -PRON- can 
      let -PRON- in , but -PRON- friend must just stop where -PRON- be . " 

      this be an unexpected obstacle . Thaddeus Sholto look about -PRON- in 
      a perplexed and helpless manner . " this be too bad of -PRON- , McMurdo ! " 
      -PRON- say . " if -PRON- guarantee -PRON- , that be enough for -PRON- . there be the 
      young lady , too . -PRON- can not wait on the public road at this hour . " 

      " very sorry , Mr. Thaddeus , " say the porter , inexorably . " folk may be 
      friend o ' your , and yet no friend o ' the master 's . -PRON- pay -PRON- well 
      to do -PRON- duty , and -PRON- duty -PRON- will do . -PRON- do not know none o ' -PRON- 
      friend . " 

      " oh , yes -PRON- do , McMurdo , " cry Sherlock Holmes , genially . " -PRON- do not 
      think -PRON- can have forget -PRON- . do not -PRON- remember the amateur who 
      fight three round with -PRON- at Alison 's room on the night of -PRON- 
      benefit four year back ? " 

      " not Mr. Sherlock Holmes ! " roar the prize - fighter . " God 's truth ! 
      how could -PRON- have mistake -PRON- ? if instead o ' standin ' there so quiet 
      -PRON- have just step up and give -PRON- that cross - hit of -PRON- under 
      the jaw , -PRON- would ha ' know -PRON- without a question . ah , -PRON- be one that 
      have waste -PRON- gift , -PRON- have ! -PRON- may have aim high , if -PRON- 
      have join the fancy . " 

      " -PRON- see , Watson , if all else fail -PRON- -PRON- have still one of the 
      scientific profession open to -PRON- , " say Holmes , laugh . " -PRON- 
      friend will not keep -PRON- out in the cold now , -PRON- be sure . " 

      " in -PRON- come , sir , in -PRON- come,--you and -PRON- friend , " -PRON- answer . 
      " very sorry , Mr. Thaddeus , but order be very strict . have to be 
      certain of -PRON- friend before -PRON- let -PRON- in . " 

      inside , a gravel path wound through desolate ground to a huge clump 
      of a house , square and prosaic , all plunge in shadow save where a 
      moonbeam strike one corner and glimmer in a garret window . the vast 
      size of the building , with -PRON- gloom and -PRON- deathly silence , strike 
      a chill to the heart . even Thaddeus Sholto seem ill at ease , and 
      the lantern quiver and rattle in -PRON- hand . 

      " -PRON- can not understand -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " there must be some mistake . -PRON- 
      distinctly tell Bartholomew that -PRON- should be here , and yet there be 
      no light in -PRON- window . -PRON- do not know what to make of -PRON- . " 

      " do -PRON- always guard the premise in this way ? " ask Holmes . 

      " yes ; -PRON- have follow -PRON- father 's custom . -PRON- be the favorite son , 
      -PRON- know , and -PRON- sometimes think that -PRON- father may have tell -PRON- more 
      than -PRON- ever tell -PRON- . that be Bartholomew 's window up there where the 
      moonshine strike . -PRON- be quite bright , but there be no light from 
      within , -PRON- think . " 

      " none , " say Holmes . " but -PRON- see the glint of a light in that little 
      window beside the door . " 

      " ah , that be the housekeeper 's room . that be where old Mrs. Bernstone 
      sit . -PRON- can tell -PRON- all about -PRON- . but perhaps -PRON- would not mind 
      wait here for a minute or two , for if -PRON- all go in together and 
      -PRON- have no word of -PRON- come -PRON- may be alarm . but hush ! what be 
      that ? " 

      -PRON- hold up the lantern , and -PRON- hand shake until the circle of light 
      flickered and waver all round -PRON- . Miss Morstan seize -PRON- wrist , and 
      -PRON- all stand with thump heart , strain -PRON- ear . from the great 
      black house there sound through the silent night the sad and 
      most pitiful of sounds,--the shrill , break whimpering of a 
      frightened woman . 

      " -PRON- be Mrs. Bernstone , " say Sholto . " -PRON- be the only woman in the 
      house . wait here . -PRON- shall be back in a moment . " -PRON- hurry for the 
      door , and knock in -PRON- peculiar way . -PRON- could see a tall old woman 
      admit -PRON- , and sway with pleasure at the very sight of -PRON- . 

      " oh , Mr. Thaddeus , sir , -PRON- be so glad -PRON- have come ! -PRON- be so glad -PRON- 
      have come , Mr. Thaddeus , sir ! " -PRON- hear -PRON- reiterated rejoicing 
      until the door be closed and -PRON- voice die away into a muffle 
      monotone . 

      -PRON- guide have leave -PRON- the lantern . Holmes swing -PRON- slowly round , and 
      peer keenly at the house , and at the great rubbish - heap which 
      cumber the ground . Miss Morstan and -PRON- stand together , and -PRON- hand 
      be in mine . a wondrous subtle thing be love , for here be -PRON- two 
      who have never see each other before that day , between whom no word 
      or even look of affection have ever pass , and yet now in an hour of 
      trouble -PRON- hand instinctively seek for each other . -PRON- have 
      marvel at -PRON- since , but at the time -PRON- seem the most natural 
      thing that -PRON- should go out to -PRON- so , and , as -PRON- have often tell -PRON- , 
      there be in -PRON- also the instinct to turn to -PRON- for comfort and 
      protection . so -PRON- stand hand in hand , like two child , and there 
      be peace in -PRON- heart for all the dark thing that surround -PRON- . 

      " what a strange place ! " -PRON- say , look round . 

      " -PRON- look as though all the mole in England have be let loose in 
      -PRON- . -PRON- have see something of the sort on the side of a hill near 
      Ballarat , where the prospector have be at work . " 

      " and from the same cause , " say Holmes . " these be the trace of the 
      treasure - seeker . -PRON- must remember that -PRON- be six year look 
      for -PRON- . no wonder that the ground look like a gravel - pit . " 

      at that moment the door of the house burst open , and Thaddeus Sholto 
      come run out , with -PRON- hand throw forward and terror in -PRON- 
      eye . 

      " there be something amiss with Bartholomew ! " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- be 
      frightened ! -PRON- nerve can not stand -PRON- . " -PRON- be , indeed , half 
      blubber with fear , and -PRON- twitching feeble face peep out from 
      the great Astrakhan collar have the helpless appealing expression of a 
      terrified child . 

      " come into the house , " say Holmes , in -PRON- crisp , firm way . 

      " yes , do ! " plead Thaddeus Sholto . " -PRON- really do not feel equal to 
      give direction . " 

      -PRON- all follow -PRON- into the housekeeper 's room , which stand upon the 
      left - hand side of the passage . the old woman be pace up and down 
      with a scared look and restless pick finger , but the sight of 
      Miss Morstan appear to have a soothing effect upon -PRON- . 

      " God bless -PRON- sweet calm face ! " -PRON- cry , with an hysterical sob . 
      " -PRON- do -PRON- good to see -PRON- . oh , but -PRON- have be sorely try this 
      day ! " 

      -PRON- companion pat -PRON- thin , work - wear hand , and murmur some few 
      word of kindly womanly comfort which bring the color back into the 
      other bloodless cheek . 

      " Master have lock -PRON- in and will now answer -PRON- , " -PRON- explain . 
      " all day -PRON- have wait to hear from -PRON- , for -PRON- often like to be 
      alone ; but an hour ago -PRON- fear that something be amiss , so -PRON- go 
      up and peep through the key - hole . -PRON- must go up , Mr. 
      thaddeus,--you must go up and look for -PRON- . -PRON- have see Mr. 
      Bartholomew Sholto in joy and in sorrow for ten long year , but -PRON- 
      never see -PRON- with such a face on -PRON- as that . " 

      Sherlock Holmes take the lamp and lead the way , for Thaddeus Sholto 's 
      tooth be chatter in -PRON- head . so shaken be -PRON- that -PRON- have to 
      pass -PRON- hand under -PRON- arm as -PRON- go up the stair , for -PRON- knee 
      be tremble under -PRON- . twice as -PRON- ascend Holmes whip -PRON- 
      lens out of -PRON- pocket and carefully examine mark which appear to 
      -PRON- to be mere shapeless smudge of dust upon the cocoa - nut matting 
      which serve as a stair - carpet . -PRON- walk slowly from step to step , 
      hold the lamp , and shoot keen glance to right and leave . Miss 
      Morstan have remain behind with the frightened housekeeper . 

      the third flight of stair end in a straight passage of some 
      length , with a great picture in indian tapestry upon the right of -PRON- 
      and three door upon the left . Holmes advance along -PRON- in the same 
      slow and methodical way , while -PRON- keep close at -PRON- heel , with -PRON- 
      long black shadow stream backwards down the corridor . the third 
      door be that which -PRON- be seek . Holmes knock without receive 
      any answer , and then try to turn the handle and force -PRON- open . -PRON- 
      be lock on the inside , however , and by a broad and powerful bolt , 
      as -PRON- could see when -PRON- set -PRON- lamp up against -PRON- . the key being 
      turn , however , the hole be not entirely close . Sherlock Holmes 
      bend down to -PRON- , and instantly rise again with a sharp intaking of 
      the breath . 

      " there be something devilish in this , Watson , " say -PRON- , more moved 
      than -PRON- have ever before see -PRON- . " what do -PRON- make of -PRON- ? " 

      -PRON- stoop to the hole , and recoil in horror . Moonlight be 
      stream into the room , and -PRON- be bright with a vague and shifty 
      radiance . look straight at -PRON- , and suspend , as -PRON- be , in the 
      air , for all beneath be in shadow , there hang a face,--the very face 
      of -PRON- companion Thaddeus . there be the same high , shine head , the 
      same circular bristle of red hair , the same bloodless countenance . 
      the feature be set , however , in a horrible smile , a fix and 
      unnatural grin , which in that still and moonlit room be more jarring 
      to the nerve than any scowl or contortion . so like be the face to 
      that of -PRON- little friend that -PRON- look round at -PRON- to make sure 
      that -PRON- be indeed with -PRON- . then -PRON- recall to mind that -PRON- have 
      mention to -PRON- that -PRON- brother and -PRON- be twin . 

      " this be terrible ! " -PRON- say to Holmes . " what be to be do ? " 

      " the door must come down , " -PRON- answer , and , spring against -PRON- , -PRON- 
      put all -PRON- weight upon the lock . -PRON- creak and groan , but do not 
      yield . together -PRON- fling -PRON- upon -PRON- once more , and this time 
      -PRON- give way with a sudden snap , and -PRON- find -PRON- within 
      Bartholomew Sholto 's chamber . 

      -PRON- appear to have be fit up as a chemical laboratory . a double 
      line of glass - stopper bottle be draw up upon the wall opposite 
      the door , and the table be litter over with Bunsen burner , 
      test - tube , and retort . in the corner stand carboy of acid in 
      wicker basket . one of these appear to leak or to have be break , 
      for a stream of dark - colored liquid have trickle out from -PRON- , and the 
      air be heavy with a peculiarly pungent , tar - like odor . a set of 
      step stand at one side of the room , in the midst of a litter of lath 
      and plaster , and above -PRON- there be an opening in the ceiling large 
      enough for a man to pass through . at the foot of the step a long 
      coil of rope be throw carelessly together . 

      by the table , in a wooden arm - chair , the master of the house be 
      seat all in a heap , with -PRON- head sink upon -PRON- left shoulder , and 
      that ghastly , inscrutable smile upon -PRON- face . -PRON- be stiff and cold , 
      and have clearly be dead many hour . -PRON- seem to -PRON- that not only 
      -PRON- feature but all -PRON- limb be twist and turn in the most 
      fantastic fashion . by -PRON- hand upon the table there lie a peculiar 
      instrument,--a brown , close - grained stick , with a stone head like a 
      hammer , rudely lash on with coarse twine . beside -PRON- be a torn 
      sheet of note - paper with some word scrawl upon -PRON- . Holmes glance 
      at -PRON- , and then hand -PRON- to -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- see , " -PRON- say , with a significant raising of the eyebrow . 

      in the light of the lantern -PRON- read , with a thrill of horror , " the 
      sign of the four . " 

      " in God 's name , what do -PRON- all mean ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- mean murder , " say -PRON- , stoop over the dead man . " ah , -PRON- 
      expect -PRON- . look here ! " -PRON- point to what look like a long , dark 
      thorn stick in the skin just above the ear . 

      " -PRON- look like a thorn , " say I. 

      " -PRON- be a thorn . -PRON- may pick -PRON- out . but be careful , for -PRON- be 
      poison . " 

      -PRON- take -PRON- up between -PRON- finger and thumb . -PRON- come away from the skin 
      so readily that hardly any mark be leave behind . one tiny speck of 
      blood show where the puncture have be . 

      " this be all an insoluble mystery to -PRON- , " say I. " -PRON- grow dark 
      instead of clear . " 

      " on the contrary , " -PRON- answer , " -PRON- clear every instant . -PRON- only 
      require a few miss link to have an entirely connect case . " 

      -PRON- have almost forget -PRON- companion 's presence since -PRON- enter the 
      chamber . -PRON- be still stand in the door - way , the very picture of 
      terror , wring -PRON- hand and moan to -PRON- . suddenly , however , 
      -PRON- break out into a sharp , querulous cry . 

      " the treasure be go ! " -PRON- say . " -PRON- have rob -PRON- of the 
      treasure ! there be the hole through which -PRON- lower -PRON- . -PRON- help -PRON- 
      to do -PRON- ! -PRON- be the last person who see -PRON- ! -PRON- leave -PRON- here last 
      night , and -PRON- hear -PRON- lock the door as -PRON- come down - stair . " 

      " what time be that ? " 

      " -PRON- be ten o'clock . and now -PRON- be dead , and the police will be 
      call in , and -PRON- shall be suspect of have have a hand in -PRON- . oh , 
      yes , -PRON- be sure -PRON- shall . but -PRON- do not think so , gentleman ? surely -PRON- 
      do not think that -PRON- be -PRON- ? be -PRON- likely that -PRON- would have bring -PRON- 
      here if -PRON- be -PRON- ? oh , dear ! oh , dear ! -PRON- know that -PRON- shall go mad ! " 
      -PRON- jerk -PRON- arm and stamp -PRON- foot in a kind of convulsive 
      frenzy . 

      " -PRON- have no reason for fear , Mr. Sholto , " say Holmes , kindly , 
      put -PRON- hand upon -PRON- shoulder . " take -PRON- advice , and drive down 
      to the station to report this matter to the police . offer to assist 
      -PRON- in every way . -PRON- shall wait here until -PRON- return . " 

      the little man obey in a half - stupefy fashion , and -PRON- hear -PRON- 
      stumble down the stair in the dark . 





           CHAPTER VI 
           Sherlock Holmes give a Demonstration 


      " now , Watson , " say Holmes , rub -PRON- hand , " -PRON- have half an hour 
      to -PRON- . let -PRON- make good use of -PRON- . -PRON- case be , as -PRON- have tell 
      -PRON- , almost complete ; but -PRON- must not err on the side of 
      over - confidence . simple as the case seem now , there may be something 
      deeper underlie -PRON- . " 

      " Simple ! " -PRON- ejaculate . 

      " surely , " say -PRON- , with something of the air of a clinical professor 
      expound to -PRON- class . " just sit in the corner there , that -PRON- 
      footprint may not complicate matter . now to work ! in the first 
      place , how do these folk come , and how do -PRON- go ? the door have not 
      be open since last night . how of the window ? " -PRON- carry the lamp 
      across to -PRON- , mutter -PRON- observation aloud the while , but 
      address -PRON- to -PRON- rather than to -PRON- . " window be snibbe on 
      the inner side . framework be solid . no hinge at the side . let -PRON- 
      open -PRON- . no water - pipe near . roof quite out of reach . yet a man have 
      mount by the window . -PRON- rain a little last night . here be the 
      print of a foot in mould upon the sill . and here be a circular muddy 
      mark , and here again upon the floor , and here again by the table . see 
      here , Watson ! this be really a very pretty demonstration . " 

      -PRON- look at the round , well - define muddy disc . " this be not a 
      footmark , " say I. 

      " -PRON- be something much more valuable to -PRON- . -PRON- be the impression of a 
      wooden stump . -PRON- see here on the sill be the boot - mark , a heavy boot 
      with the broad metal heel , and beside -PRON- be the mark of the 
      timber - toe . " 

      " -PRON- be the wooden - legged man . " 

      " quite so . but there have be some one else,--a very able and 
      efficient ally . Could -PRON- scale that wall , doctor ? " 

      -PRON- look out of the open window . the moon still shine brightly on 
      that angle of the house . -PRON- be a good sixty foot from the ground , 
      and , look where -PRON- would , -PRON- could see no foothold , nor as much as a 
      crevice in the brick - work . 

      " -PRON- be absolutely impossible , " -PRON- answer . 

      " without aid -PRON- be so . but suppose -PRON- have a friend up here who 
      lower -PRON- this good stout rope which -PRON- see in the corner , secure 
      one end of -PRON- to this great hook in the wall . then , -PRON- think , if -PRON- 
      be an active man , -PRON- may swarm up , wooden leg and all . -PRON- would 
      depart , of course , in the same fashion , and -PRON- ally would draw up 
      the rope , untie -PRON- from the hook , shut the window , snib -PRON- on the 
      inside , and get away in the way that -PRON- originally come . as a minor 
      point -PRON- may be note , " -PRON- continue , finger the rope , " that -PRON- 
      wooden - legged friend , though a fair climber , be not a professional 
      sailor . -PRON- hand be far from horny . -PRON- lens disclose more than 
      one blood - mark , especially towards the end of the rope , from which -PRON- 
      gather that -PRON- slip down with such velocity that -PRON- take the skin 
      off -PRON- hand . " 

      " this be all very well , " say -PRON- , " but the thing become more 
      unintelligible than ever . how about this mysterious ally ? how come -PRON- 
      into the room ? " 

      " yes , the ally ! " repeat Holmes , pensively . " there be feature of 
      interest about this ally . -PRON- lift the case from the region of the 
      commonplace . -PRON- fancy that this ally break fresh ground in the annal 
      of crime in this country,--though parallel case suggest -PRON- 
      from India , and , if -PRON- memory serve -PRON- , from Senegambia . " 

      " how come -PRON- , then ? " -PRON- reiterate . " the door be lock , the window be 
      inaccessible . be -PRON- through the chimney ? " 

      " the grate be much too small , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- have already consider 
      that possibility . " 

      " how then ? " -PRON- persist . 

      " -PRON- will not apply -PRON- precept , " -PRON- say , shake -PRON- head . " how 
      often have -PRON- say to -PRON- that when -PRON- have eliminate the impossible 
      whatever remain , however improbable , must be the truth ? -PRON- know that 
      -PRON- do not come through the door , the window , or the chimney . -PRON- also 
      know that -PRON- could not have be conceal in the room , as there be 
      no concealment possible . Whence , then , do -PRON- come ? " 

      " -PRON- come through the hole in the roof , " -PRON- cry . 

      " of course -PRON- do . -PRON- must have do so . if -PRON- will have the 
      kindness to hold the lamp for -PRON- , -PRON- shall now extend -PRON- research 
      to the room above,--the secret room in which the treasure be find . " 

      -PRON- mount the step , and , seize a rafter with either hand , -PRON- 
      swing -PRON- up into the garret . then , lie on -PRON- face , -PRON- reach 
      down for the lamp and hold -PRON- while -PRON- follow -PRON- . 

      the chamber in which -PRON- find -PRON- be about ten foot one way 
      and six the other . the floor be form by the rafter , with thin 
      lath - and - plaster between , so that in walk one have to step from 
      beam to beam . the roof run up to an apex , and be evidently the inner 
      shell of the true roof of the house . there be no furniture of any 
      sort , and the accumulate dust of year lie thick upon the floor . 

      " here -PRON- be , -PRON- see , " say Sherlock Holmes , put -PRON- hand 
      against the slope wall . " this be a trap - door which lead out on to 
      the roof . -PRON- can press -PRON- back , and here be the roof -PRON- , slope 
      at a gentle angle . this , then , be the way by which Number one 
      enter . let -PRON- see if -PRON- can find one other trace of -PRON- 
      individuality . " 

      -PRON- hold down the lamp to the floor , and as -PRON- do so -PRON- see for the 
      second time that night a startled , surprised look come over -PRON- face . 
      for -PRON- , as -PRON- follow -PRON- gaze -PRON- skin be cold under -PRON- clothe . 
      the floor be cover thickly with the print of a naked 
      foot,--clear , well define , perfectly form , but scarce half the 
      size of those of an ordinary man . 

      " Holmes , " -PRON- say , in a whisper , " a child have do the horrid thing . " 

      -PRON- have recover -PRON- self - possession in an instant . " -PRON- be stagger 
      for the moment , " -PRON- say , " but the thing be quite natural . -PRON- memory 
      fail -PRON- , or -PRON- should have be able to foretell -PRON- . there be 
      nothing more to be learn here . let -PRON- go down . " 

      " what be -PRON- theory , then , as to those footmark ? " -PRON- ask , eagerly , 
      when -PRON- have regain the low room once more . 

      " -PRON- dear Watson , try a little analysis -PRON- , " say -PRON- , with a 
      touch of impatience . " -PRON- know -PRON- method . apply -PRON- , and -PRON- will be 
      instructive to compare result . " 

      " -PRON- can not conceive anything which will cover the fact , " -PRON- answer . 

      " -PRON- will be clear enough to -PRON- soon , " -PRON- say , in an off - hand way . 
      " -PRON- think that there be nothing else of importance here , but -PRON- will 
      look . " -PRON- whip out -PRON- lens and a tape measure , and hurry about 
      the room on -PRON- knee , measure , compare , examine , with -PRON- long 
      thin nose only a few inch from the planks , and -PRON- beady eye 
      gleam and deep - set like those of a bird . so swift , silent , and 
      furtive be -PRON- movement , like those of a train blood - hound 
      pick out a scent , that -PRON- could not but think what a terrible 
      criminal -PRON- would have make have -PRON- turn -PRON- energy and sagacity 
      against the law , instead of exert -PRON- in -PRON- defense . as -PRON- 
      hunt about , -PRON- keep mutter to -PRON- , and finally -PRON- break out 
      into a loud crow of delight . 

      " -PRON- be certainly in luck , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- ought to have very little 
      trouble now . Number One have have the misfortune to tread in the 
      creosote . -PRON- can see the outline of the edge of -PRON- small foot here 
      at the side of this evil - smell mess . the carboy have be crack , 
      -PRON- see , and the stuff have leak out . " 

      " what then ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " why , -PRON- have get -PRON- , that be all , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- know a dog that would 
      follow that scent to the world 's end . if a pack can track a trailed 
      herre across a shire , how far can a specially - train hound follow 
      so pungent a smell as this ? -PRON- sound like a sum in the rule of 
      three . the answer should give -PRON- the -- but halloo ! here be the 
      accredited representative of the law . " 

      heavy step and the clamor of loud voice be audible from below , 
      and the hall door shut with a loud crash . 

      " before -PRON- come , " say Holmes , " just put -PRON- hand here on this 
      poor fellow 's arm , and here on -PRON- leg . what do -PRON- feel ? " 

      " the muscle be as hard as a board , " -PRON- answer . 

      " quite so . -PRON- be in a state of extreme contraction , far exceed 
      the usual rigor mortis . couple with this distortion of the face , 
      this hippocratic smile , or ' risus sardonicus , ' as the old writer 
      call -PRON- , what conclusion would -PRON- suggest to -PRON- mind ? " 

      " death from some powerful vegetable alkaloid , " -PRON- answered,--"some 
      strychnine - like substance which would produce tetanus . " 

      " that be the idea which occur to -PRON- the instant -PRON- see the draw 
      muscle of the face . on get into the room -PRON- at once look for 
      the mean by which the poison have enter the system . as -PRON- see , -PRON- 
      discover a thorn which have be drive or shoot with no great force 
      into the scalp . -PRON- observe that the part strike be that which would 
      be turn towards the hole in the ceiling if the man be erect in 
      -PRON- chair . now examine the thorn . " 

      -PRON- take -PRON- up gingerly and hold -PRON- in the light of the lantern . -PRON- be 
      long , sharp , and black , with a glaze look near the point as though 
      some gummy substance have dry upon -PRON- . the blunt end have be 
      trim and round off with a knife . 

      " be that an English thorn ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " no , -PRON- certainly be not . " 

      " with all these datum -PRON- should be able to draw some just inference . 
      but here be the regular : so the auxiliary force may beat a 
      retreat . " 

      as -PRON- speak , the step which have be come nearer sound loudly on 
      the passage , and a very stout , portly man in a gray suit strode 
      heavily into the room . -PRON- be red - faced , burly and plethoric , with a 
      pair of very small twinkle eye which look keenly out from 
      between swollen and puffy pouch . -PRON- be closely follow by an 
      inspector in uniform , and by the still palpitate Thaddeus Sholto . 

      " here be a business ! " -PRON- cry , in a muffled , husky voice . " here be a 
      pretty business ! but who be all these ? why , the house seem to be as 
      full as a rabbit - warren ! " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- must recollect -PRON- , Mr. Athelney Jones , " say Holmes , 
      quietly . 

      " why , of course -PRON- do ! " -PRON- wheeze . " -PRON- be Mr. Sherlock Holmes , the 
      theorist . remember -PRON- ! -PRON- will never forget how -PRON- lecture -PRON- all on 
      cause and inference and effect in the Bishopgate jewel case . -PRON- be 
      true -PRON- set -PRON- on the right track ; but -PRON- will own now that -PRON- be 
      more by good luck than good guidance . " 

      " -PRON- be a piece of very simple reasoning . " 

      " oh , come , now , come ! never be ashamed to own up . but what be all 
      this ? bad business ! bad business ! stern fact here,--no room for 
      theory . how lucky that -PRON- happen to be out at Norwood over another 
      case ! -PRON- be at the station when the message arrive . what d'you think 
      the man die of ? " 

      " oh , this be hardly a case for -PRON- to theorize over , " say Holmes , 
      dryly . 

      " no , no . still , -PRON- can not deny that -PRON- hit the nail on the head 
      sometimes . dear -PRON- ! Door lock , -PRON- understand . jewel worth half a 
      million missing . how be the window ? " 

      " fasten ; but there be step on the sill . " 

      " well , well , if -PRON- be fasten the step could have nothing to do 
      with the matter . that be common sense . Man may have die in a fit ; 
      but then the jewel be miss . ha ! -PRON- have a theory . these flash 
      come upon -PRON- at times.--just step outside , sergeant , and -PRON- , Mr. 
      Sholto . -PRON- friend can remain.--what do -PRON- think of this , Holmes ? 
      Sholto be , on -PRON- own confession , with -PRON- brother last night . the 
      brother die in a fit , on which Sholto walk off with the treasure . 
      how be that ? " 

      " on which the dead man very considerately get up and lock the door 
      on the inside . " 

      " Hum ! there be a flaw there . let -PRON- apply common sense to the matter . 
      this Thaddeus Sholto be with -PRON- brother ; there be a quarrel ; so 
      much -PRON- know . the brother be dead and the jewel be go . so much 
      also -PRON- know . no one see the brother from the time Thaddeus leave -PRON- . 
      -PRON- bed have not be sleep in . Thaddeus be evidently in a most 
      disturb state of mind . -PRON- appearance be -- well , not attractive . -PRON- 
      see that -PRON- be weave -PRON- web round Thaddeus . the net begin to close 
      upon -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be not quite in possession of the fact yet , " say Holmes . 
      " this splinter of wood , which -PRON- have every reason to believe to be 
      poison , be in the man 's scalp where -PRON- still see the mark ; this 
      card , inscribe as -PRON- see -PRON- , be on the table ; and beside -PRON- lie 
      this rather curious stone - head instrument . how do all that fit 
      into -PRON- theory ? " 

      " confirm -PRON- in every respect , " say the fat detective , pompously . 
      " House be full of indian curiosity . Thaddeus bring this up , and 
      if this splinter be poisonous Thaddeus may as well have make 
      murderous use of -PRON- as any other man . the card be some 
      hocus - pocus,--a blind , as like as not . the only question be , how do 
      -PRON- depart ? ah , of course , here be a hole in the roof . " with great 
      activity , consider -PRON- bulk , -PRON- spring up the step and squeeze 
      through into the garret , and immediately afterwards -PRON- hear -PRON- 
      exulting voice proclaim that -PRON- have find the trap - door . 

      " -PRON- can find something , " remark Holmes , shrug -PRON- shoulder . 
      " -PRON- have occasional glimmering of reason . il n'y a pas des sot si 
      incommode que ceux qui ont de l'esprit ! " 

      " -PRON- see ! " say Athelney Jones , reappear down the step again . 
      " fact be well than mere theory , after all . -PRON- view of the case 
      be confirm . there be a trap - door communicating with the roof , and 
      -PRON- be partly open . " 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- who open -PRON- . " 

      " oh , indeed ! -PRON- do notice -PRON- , then ? " -PRON- seem a little crestfallen 
      at the discovery . " well , whoever notice -PRON- , -PRON- show how -PRON- 
      gentleman get away . inspector ! " 

      " yes , sir , " from the passage . 

      " ask Mr. Sholto to step this way.--mr . Sholto , -PRON- be -PRON- duty to 
      inform -PRON- that anything which -PRON- may say will be use against -PRON- . 
      -PRON- arrest -PRON- in the Queen 's name as be concern in the death of 
      -PRON- brother . " 

      " there , now ! do not -PRON- tell -PRON- ! " cry the poor little man , throw 
      out -PRON- hand , and look from one to the other of -PRON- . 

      " do not trouble -PRON- about -PRON- , Mr. Sholto , " say Holmes . " -PRON- think 
      that -PRON- can engage to clear -PRON- of the charge . " 

      " do not promise too much , Mr. Theorist,--don't promise too much ! " 
      snap the detective . " -PRON- may find -PRON- a hard matter than -PRON- 
      think . " 

      " not only will -PRON- clear -PRON- , Mr. Jones , but -PRON- will make -PRON- a free 
      present of the name and description of one of the two people who be 
      in this room last night . -PRON- name , -PRON- have every reason to believe , be 
      Jonathan Small . -PRON- be a poorly - educate man , small , active , with -PRON- 
      right leg off , and wear a wooden stump which be wear away upon the 
      inner side . -PRON- left boot have a coarse , square - toe sole , with an 
      iron band round the heel . -PRON- be a middle - aged man , much sunburn , 
      and have be a convict . these few indication may be of some 
      assistance to -PRON- , couple with the fact that there be a good deal of 
      skin miss from the palm of -PRON- hand . the other man-- " 

      " ah ! the other man-- ? " ask Athelney Jones , in a sneer voice , but 
      impress none the less , as -PRON- could easily see , by the precision of 
      the other 's manner . 

      " be a rather curious person , " say Sherlock Holmes , turn upon -PRON- 
      heel . " -PRON- hope before very long to be able to introduce -PRON- to the 
      pair of -PRON- . a word with -PRON- , Watson . " 

      -PRON- lead -PRON- out to the head of the stair . " this unexpected occurrence , " 
      -PRON- say , " have cause -PRON- rather to lose sight of the original purpose 
      of -PRON- journey . " 

      " -PRON- have just be think so , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- be not right that 
      Miss Morstan should remain in this stricken house . " 

      " no . -PRON- must escort -PRON- home . -PRON- live with Mrs. Cecil Forrester , 
      in Lower Camberwell : so -PRON- be not very far . -PRON- will wait for -PRON- here 
      if -PRON- will drive out again . or perhaps -PRON- be too tired ? " 

      " by no means . -PRON- do not think -PRON- could rest until -PRON- know more of this 
      fantastic business . -PRON- have see something of the rough side of life , 
      but -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- word that this quick succession of strange 
      surprise to - night have shake -PRON- nerve completely . -PRON- should like , 
      however , to see the matter through with -PRON- , now that -PRON- have get so 
      far . " 

      " -PRON- presence will be of great service to -PRON- , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- 
      shall work the case out independently , and leave this fellow Jones to 
      exult over any mare' - nest which -PRON- may choose to construct . when -PRON- 
      have drop Miss Morstan -PRON- wish -PRON- to go on to no . 3 Pinchin Lane , 
      down near the water 's edge at Lambeth . the third house on the 
      right - hand side be a bird - stuffer 's : Sherman be the name . -PRON- will 
      see a weasel hold a young rabbit in the window . knock old Sherman 
      up , and tell -PRON- , with -PRON- compliment , that -PRON- want Toby at once . -PRON- 
      will bring Toby back in the cab with -PRON- . " 

      " a dog , -PRON- suppose . " 

      " Yes,--a queer mongrel , with a most amazing power of scent . -PRON- would 
      rather have Toby 's help than that of the whole detective force of 
      London . " 

      " -PRON- shall bring -PRON- , then , " say I. " -PRON- be one now . -PRON- ought to be back 
      before three , if -PRON- can get a fresh horse . " 

      " and -PRON- , " say Holmes , " shall see what -PRON- can learn from Mrs. 
      Bernstone , and from the indian servant , who , Mr. Thaddeus tell -PRON- , 
      sleep in the next garret . then -PRON- shall study the great Jones 's 
      method and listen to -PRON- not too delicate sarcasm . ' Wir sind 
      gewohnt , daß die Menschen verhöhnen be sie nicht verstehen . ' Goethe 
      be always pithy . " 





           CHAPTER VII 
           the Episode of the Barrel 


      the police have bring a cab with -PRON- , and in this -PRON- escort Miss 
      Morstan back to -PRON- home . after the angelic fashion of woman , -PRON- have 
      bear trouble with a calm face as long as there be some one weak 
      than -PRON- to support , and -PRON- have find -PRON- bright and placid by the 
      side of the frightened housekeeper . in the cab , however , -PRON- first 
      turn faint , and then burst into a passion of weeping,--so sorely 
      have -PRON- be try by the adventure of the night . -PRON- have tell -PRON- 
      since that -PRON- think -PRON- cold and distant upon that journey . -PRON- 
      little guess the struggle within -PRON- breast , or the effort of 
      self - restraint which hold -PRON- back . -PRON- sympathy and -PRON- love go out 
      to -PRON- , even as -PRON- hand have in the garden . -PRON- feel that year of the 
      conventionality of life could not teach -PRON- to know -PRON- sweet , brave 
      nature as have this one day of strange experience . yet there be two 
      thought which seal the word of affection upon -PRON- lip . -PRON- be 
      weak and helpless , shake in mind and nerve . -PRON- be to take -PRON- at a 
      disadvantage to obtrude love upon -PRON- at such a time . bad still , 
      -PRON- be rich . if Holmes 's research be successful , -PRON- would be an 
      heiress . be -PRON- fair , be -PRON- honorable , that a half - pay surgeon 
      should take such advantage of an intimacy which chance have bring 
      about ? may -PRON- not look upon -PRON- as a mere vulgar fortune - seeker ? -PRON- 
      could not bear to risk that such a thought should cross -PRON- mind . 
      this Agra treasure intervene like an impassable barrier between -PRON- . 

      -PRON- be nearly two o'clock when -PRON- reach Mrs. Cecil Forrester 's . the 
      servant have retire hour ago , but Mrs. Forrester have be so 
      interested by the strange message which Miss Morstan have receive 
      that -PRON- have sit up in the hope of -PRON- return . -PRON- open the door 
      -PRON- , a middle - aged , graceful woman , and -PRON- give -PRON- joy to see how 
      tenderly -PRON- arm steal round the other 's waist and how motherly be 
      the voice in which -PRON- greet -PRON- . -PRON- be clearly no mere pay 
      dependant , but an honored friend . -PRON- be introduce , and Mrs. 
      Forrester earnestly beg -PRON- to step in and tell -PRON- -PRON- adventure . 
      -PRON- explain , however , the importance of -PRON- errand , and promise 
      faithfully to call and report any progress which -PRON- may make with 
      the case . as -PRON- drive away -PRON- steal a glance back , and -PRON- still seem to 
      see that little group on the step , the two graceful , cling 
      figure , the half - open door , the hall light shine through stain 
      glass , the barometer , and the bright stair - rod . -PRON- be soothe to 
      catch even that pass glimpse of a tranquil english home in the 
      midst of the wild , dark business which have absorb -PRON- . 

      and the more -PRON- think of what have happen , the wilder and darker -PRON- 
      grow . -PRON- review the whole extraordinary sequence of event as -PRON- 
      rattle on through the silent gas - light street . there be the original 
      problem : that at least be pretty clear now . the death of Captain 
      Morstan , the sending of the pearl , the advertisement , the 
      letter,--we have have light upon all those event . -PRON- have only lead 
      -PRON- , however , to a deep and far more tragic mystery . the indian 
      treasure , the curious plan find among Morstan 's baggage , the strange 
      scene at Major Sholto 's death , the rediscovery of the treasure 
      immediately follow by the murder of the discoverer , the very 
      singular accompaniment to the crime , the footstep , the remarkable 
      weapon , the word upon the card , correspond with those upon 
      Captain Morstan 's chart,--here be indeed a labyrinth in which a man 
      less singularly endow than -PRON- fellow - lodger may well despair of 
      ever find the clue . 

      Pinchin Lane be a row of shabby two - storied brick house in the 
      low quarter of Lambeth . -PRON- have to knock for some time at no . 3 
      before -PRON- could make -PRON- impression . at last , however , there be the 
      glint of a candle behind the blind , and a face look out at the 
      upper window . 

      " go on , -PRON- drunken vagabone , " say the face . " if -PRON- kick up any 
      more row -PRON- will open the kennel and let out forty - three dog upon 
      -PRON- . " 

      " if -PRON- will let one out -PRON- be just what -PRON- have come for , " say I. 

      " go on ! " yell the voice . " so help -PRON- gracious , -PRON- have a wiper in 
      the bag , an ' -PRON- will drop -PRON- on -PRON- ' ead if -PRON- do not hook -PRON- . " 

      " but -PRON- want a dog , " -PRON- cry . 

      " -PRON- will not be argue with ! " shout Mr. Sherman . " now stand clear , for 
      when -PRON- say ' three , ' down go the wiper . " 

      " Mr. Sherlock Holmes-- " -PRON- begin , but the word have a most magical 
      effect , for the window instantly slam down , and within a minute 
      the door be unbarred and open . Mr. Sherman be a lanky , lean old 
      man , with stoop shoulder , a stringy neck , and blue - tint 
      glass . 

      " a friend of Mr. Sherlock be always welcome , " say -PRON- .   " step in , 
      sir . keep clear of the badger ; for -PRON- bite . ah , naughty , naughty , 
      would -PRON- take a nip at the gentleman ? " this to a stoat which thrust 
      -PRON- wicked head and red eye between the bar of -PRON- cage . " do not 
      mind that , sir : -PRON- be only a slow - worm . -PRON- hain't get no fang , so -PRON- 
      give -PRON- the run o ' the room , for -PRON- keep the bettle down . -PRON- must 
      not mind -PRON- bein ' just a little short wi ' -PRON- at first , for -PRON- be guy 
      at by the child , and there be many a one just come down this lane 
      to knock -PRON- up . what be -PRON- that Mr. Sherlock Holmes want , sir ? " 

      " -PRON- want a dog of -PRON- . " 

      " ah ! that would be Toby . " 

      " yes , Toby be the name . " 

      " Toby live at no . 7 on the left here . " -PRON- move slowly forward with 
      -PRON- candle among the queer animal family which -PRON- have gather round 
      -PRON- . in the uncertain , shadowy light -PRON- could see dimly that there 
      be glance , glimmer eye peep down at -PRON- from every cranny 
      and corner . even the rafter above -PRON- head be line by solemn 
      fowl , who lazily shift -PRON- weight from one leg to the other as 
      -PRON- voice disturb -PRON- slumber . 

      Toby prove to an ugly , long - haired , lop - eared creature , half spaniel 
      and half lurcher , brown - and - white in color , with a very clumsy 
      waddle gait . -PRON- accept after some hesitation a lump of sugar 
      which the old naturalist hand to -PRON- , and , have thus seal an 
      alliance , -PRON- follow -PRON- to the cab , and make no difficulty about 
      accompany -PRON- . -PRON- have just strike three on the Palace clock when -PRON- 
      find -PRON- back once more at Pondicherry Lodge . the 
      ex - prize - fighter McMurdo have , -PRON- find , be arrest as an accessory , 
      and both -PRON- and Mr. Sholto have be march off to the station . two 
      constable guard the narrow gate , but -PRON- allow -PRON- to pass with 
      the dog on -PRON- mention the detective 's name . 

      Holmes be stand on the door - step , with -PRON- hand in -PRON- pocket , 
      smoke -PRON- pipe . 

      " ah , -PRON- have -PRON- there ! " say -PRON- . " good dog , then ! Athelney Jones 
      have go . -PRON- have have an immense display of energy since -PRON- leave . -PRON- 
      have arrest not only friend Thaddeus , but the gatekeeper , the 
      housekeeper , and the indian servant . -PRON- have the place to -PRON- , 
      but for a sergeant up - stair . leave the dog here , and come up . " 

      -PRON- tie Toby to the hall table , and reascende the stair . the room 
      be as -PRON- have leave -PRON- , save that a sheet have be drape over the 
      central figure . a weary - look police - sergeant recline in the 
      corner . 

      " lend -PRON- -PRON- bull's - eye , sergeant , " say -PRON- companion . " now tie this 
      bit of card round -PRON- neck , so as to hang -PRON- in front of -PRON- . thank 
      -PRON- . now -PRON- must kick off -PRON- boot and stockings.--just -PRON- carry -PRON- 
      down with -PRON- , Watson . -PRON- be go to do a little climbing . and dip -PRON- 
      handkerchief into the creasote . that will do . now come up into the 
      garret with -PRON- for a moment . " 

      -PRON- clamber up through the hole . Holmes turn -PRON- light once more 
      upon the footstep in the dust . 

      " -PRON- wish -PRON- particularly to notice these footmark , " -PRON- say . " do -PRON- 
      observe anything noteworthy about -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- belong , " -PRON- say , " to a child or a small woman . " 

      " apart from -PRON- size , though . be there nothing else ? " 

      " -PRON- appear to be much as other footmark . " 

      " not at all . look here ! this be the print of a right foot in the 
      dust . now -PRON- make one with -PRON- naked foot beside -PRON- . what be the chief 
      difference ? " 

      " -PRON- toe be all cramp together . the other print have each toe 
      distinctly divide . " 

      " quite so . that be the point . bear that in mind . now , would -PRON- 
      kindly step over to that flap - window and smell the edge of the 
      wood - work ? -PRON- shall stay here , as -PRON- have this handkerchief in -PRON- 
      hand . " 

      -PRON- do as -PRON- direct , and be instantly conscious of a strong tarry 
      smell . 

      " that be where -PRON- put -PRON- foot in get out . if -PRON- can trace -PRON- , 
      -PRON- should think that Toby will have no difficulty . now run 
      down - stair , loose the dog , and look out for Blondin . " 

      by the time that -PRON- get out into the ground Sherlock Holmes be on 
      the roof , and -PRON- could see -PRON- like an enormous glow - worm crawling 
      very slowly along the ridge . -PRON- lose sight of -PRON- behind a stack of 
      chimney , but -PRON- presently reappear , and then vanish once more 
      upon the opposite side . when -PRON- make -PRON- way round there -PRON- find -PRON- 
      seat at one of the corner eave . 

      " that -PRON- , Watson ? " -PRON- cry . 

      " yes . " 

      " this be the place . what be that black thing down there ? " 

      " a water - barrel . " 

      " top on -PRON- ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " no sign of a ladder ? " 

      " no . " 

      " confound the fellow ! -PRON- be a most break - neck place . -PRON- ought to be 
      able to come down where -PRON- could climb up . the water - pipe feel 
      pretty firm . here go , anyhow . " 

      there be a scuffling of foot , and the lantern begin to come steadily 
      down the side of the wall . then with a light spring -PRON- come on to the 
      barrel , and from there to the earth . 

      " -PRON- be easy to follow -PRON- , " -PRON- say , draw on -PRON- stocking and 
      boot . " tile be loosen the whole way along , and in -PRON- hurry -PRON- 
      have drop this . -PRON- confirm -PRON- diagnosis , as -PRON- doctor express 
      -PRON- . " 

      the object which -PRON- hold up to -PRON- be a small pocket or pouch weave 
      out of colored grass and with a few tawdry bead strung round -PRON- . 
      in shape and size -PRON- be not unlike a cigarette - case . inside be 
      half a dozen spine of dark wood , sharp at one end and round at the 
      other , like that which have strike Bartholomew Sholto . 

      " -PRON- be hellish thing , " say -PRON- . " look out that -PRON- do not prick 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be delighted to have -PRON- , for the chance be that -PRON- 
      be all -PRON- have . there be the less fear of -PRON- or -PRON- find one in 
      -PRON- skin before long . -PRON- would sooner face a Martini bullet , -PRON- . 
      be -PRON- game for a six - mile trudge , Watson ? " 

      " certainly , " -PRON- answer . 

      " -PRON- leg will stand -PRON- ? " 

      " oh , yes . " 

      " here -PRON- be , doggy ! good old Toby ! smell -PRON- , Toby , smell -PRON- ! " -PRON- 
      push the creasote handkerchief under the dog 's nose , while the 
      creature stand with -PRON- fluffy leg separate , and with a most 
      comical cock to -PRON- head , like a connoisseur sniff the bouquet of 
      a famous vintage . Holmes then throw the handkerchief to a distance , 
      fasten a stout cord to the mongrel 's collar , and let -PRON- to the 
      foot of the water - barrel . the creature instantly break into a 
      succession of high , tremulous yelps , and , with -PRON- nose on the 
      ground , and -PRON- tail in the air , patter off upon the trail at a 
      pace which strain -PRON- leash and keep -PRON- at the top of -PRON- speed . 

      the east have be gradually whiten , and -PRON- could now see some 
      distance in the cold gray light . the square , massive house , with -PRON- 
      black , empty window and high , bare wall , tower up , sad and 
      forlorn , behind -PRON- . -PRON- course let right across the ground , in and 
      out among the trench and pit with which -PRON- be scar and 
      intersect . the whole place , with -PRON- scatter dirt - heap and 
      ill - grow shrub , have a blight , ill - omened look which harmonize 
      with the black tragedy which hang over -PRON- . 

      on reach the boundary wall Toby run along , whine eagerly , 
      underneath -PRON- shadow , and stop finally in a corner screen by a 
      young beech . where the two wall join , several brick have be 
      loosen , and the crevice leave be wear down and round upon the 
      low side , as though -PRON- have frequently be use as a ladder . 
      Holmes clamber up , and , take the dog from -PRON- , -PRON- drop -PRON- over 
      upon the other side . 

      " there be the print of wooden - leg 's hand , " -PRON- remark , as -PRON- mount 
      up beside -PRON- . " -PRON- see the slight smudge of blood upon the white 
      plaster . what a lucky thing -PRON- be that -PRON- have have no very heavy rain 
      since yesterday ! the scent will lie upon the road in spite of -PRON- 
      eight - and - twenty hour ' start . " 

      -PRON- confess that -PRON- have -PRON- doubt -PRON- when -PRON- reflect upon the great 
      traffic which have pass along the London road in the interval . -PRON- 
      fear be soon appease , however . Toby never hesitate or swerve , 
      but waddle on in -PRON- peculiar rolling fashion . clearly , the pungent 
      smell of the creasote rise high above all other contend scent . 

      " do not imagine , " say Holmes , " that -PRON- depend for -PRON- success in this 
      case upon the mere chance of one of these fellow have put -PRON- foot 
      in the chemical . -PRON- have knowledge now which would enable -PRON- to trace 
      -PRON- in many different way . this , however , be the readiest and , 
      since fortune have put -PRON- into -PRON- hand , -PRON- should be culpable if -PRON- 
      neglect -PRON- . -PRON- have , however , prevent the case from become the 
      pretty little intellectual problem which -PRON- at one time promise to 
      be . there may have be some credit to be gain out of -PRON- , but for 
      this too palpable clue . " 

      " there be credit , and to spare , " say I. " -PRON- assure -PRON- , Holmes , that 
      -PRON- marvel at the mean by which -PRON- obtain -PRON- result in this case , 
      even more than -PRON- do in the Jefferson Hope Murder . the thing seem to 
      -PRON- to be deep and more inexplicable . how , for example , could -PRON- 
      describe with such confidence the wooden - legged man ? " 

      " Pshaw , -PRON- dear boy ! -PRON- be simplicity -PRON- . -PRON- do not wish to be 
      theatrical . -PRON- be all patent and above - board . two officer who be in 
      command of a convict - guard learn an important secret as to bury 
      treasure . a map be draw for -PRON- by an Englishman name Jonathan 
      small . -PRON- remember that -PRON- see the name upon the chart in Captain 
      Morstan 's possession . -PRON- have sign -PRON- in behalf of -PRON- and -PRON- 
      associates,--the sign of the four , as -PRON- somewhat dramatically call 
      -PRON- . aid by this chart , the officer -- or one of -PRON- -- get the 
      treasure and bring -PRON- to England , leave , -PRON- will suppose , some 
      condition under which -PRON- receive -PRON- unfulfilled . now , then , why do 
      not Jonathan Small get the treasure -PRON- ? the answer be obvious . 
      the chart be date at a time when Morstan be bring into close 
      association with convict . Jonathan Small do not get the treasure 
      because -PRON- and -PRON- associate be -PRON- convict and could not 
      get away . " 

      " but that be mere speculation , " say I. 

      " -PRON- be more than that . -PRON- be the only hypothesis which cover the 
      fact . let -PRON- see how -PRON- fit in with the sequel . Major Sholto 
      remain at peace for some year , happy in the possession of -PRON- 
      treasure . then -PRON- receive a letter from India which give -PRON- a 
      great fright . what be that ? " 

      " a letter to say that the man whom -PRON- have wrong have be set free . " 

      " or have escape . that be much more likely , for -PRON- would have know 
      what -PRON- term of imprisonment be . -PRON- would not have be a 
      surprise to -PRON- . what do -PRON- do then ? -PRON- guard -PRON- against a 
      wooden - legged man,--a white man , mark -PRON- , for -PRON- mistake a white 
      tradesman for -PRON- , and actually fire a pistol at -PRON- . now , only one 
      white man 's name be on the chart . the other be Hindoos or 
      Mohammedans . there be no other white man . therefore -PRON- may say with 
      confidence that the wooden - legged man be identical with Jonathan 
      small . do the reasoning strike yo as be faulty ? " 

      " no : -PRON- be clear and concise . " 

      " well , now , let -PRON- put -PRON- in the place of Jonathan Small . let 
      -PRON- look at -PRON- from -PRON- point of view . -PRON- come to England with the 
      double idea of regain what -PRON- would consider to be -PRON- right and 
      of have -PRON- revenge upon the man who have wrong -PRON- . -PRON- find out 
      where Sholto live , and very possibly -PRON- establish communication 
      with some one inside the house . there be this butler , Lal Rao , whom 
      -PRON- have not see . Mrs. Bernstone give -PRON- far from a good character . 
      small could not find out , however , where the treasure be hide , for no 
      one ever know , save the major and one faithful servant who have die . 
      suddenly small learn that the major be on -PRON- death - bed . in a frenzy 
      lest the secret of the treasure die with -PRON- , -PRON- run the gauntlet of 
      the guard , make -PRON- way to the die man 's window , and be only 
      deter from enter by the presence of -PRON- two son . mad with 
      hate , however , against the dead man , -PRON- enter the room that night , 
      search -PRON- private paper in the hope of discover some 
      memorandum relate to the treasure , and finally leave a memento of 
      -PRON- visit in the short inscription upon the card . -PRON- have doubtless 
      plan beforehand that should -PRON- slay the major -PRON- would leave some 
      such record upon the body as a sign that -PRON- be not a common murder , 
      but , from the point of view of the four associate , something in the 
      nature of an act of justice . whimsical and bizarre conceit of this 
      kind be common enough in the annal of crime , and usually afford 
      valuable indication as to the criminal . do -PRON- follow all this ? " 

      " very clearly . " 

      " now , what could Jonathan Small do ? -PRON- could only continue to keep a 
      secret watch upon the effort make to find the treasure . possibly -PRON- 
      leave England and only come back at interval . then come the 
      discovery of the garret , and -PRON- be instantly inform of -PRON- . -PRON- again 
      trace the presence of some confederate in the household . Jonathan , 
      with -PRON- wooden leg , be utterly unable to reach the lofty room of 
      Bartholomew Sholto . -PRON- take with -PRON- , however , a rather curious 
      associate , who get over this difficulty , but dip -PRON- naked foot 
      into creasote , whence come Toby , and a six - mile limp for a half - pay 
      officer with a damage tendo Achillis . " 

      " but -PRON- be the associate , and not Jonathan , who commit the 
      crime . " 

      " quite so . and rather to Jonathan 's disgust , to judge by the way the 
      stamp about when -PRON- get into the room . -PRON- bear no grudge against 
      Bartholomew Sholto , and would have prefer if -PRON- could have be 
      simply bind and gag . -PRON- do not wish to put -PRON- head in a halter . 
      there be no help for -PRON- , however : the savage instinct of -PRON- 
      companion have break out , and the poison have do -PRON- work : so 
      Jonathan Small leave -PRON- record , lower the treasure - box to the 
      ground , and follow -PRON- -PRON- . that be the train of event as far 
      as -PRON- can decipher -PRON- . of course as to -PRON- personal appearance -PRON- 
      must be middle - aged , and must be sunburn after serve -PRON- time in 
      such an oven as the Andamans . -PRON- height be readily calculate from 
      the length of -PRON- stride , and -PRON- know that -PRON- be bearded . -PRON- 
      hairiness be the one point which impress -PRON- upon Thaddeus 
      Sholto when -PRON- see -PRON- at the window . -PRON- do not know that there be 
      anything else . " 

      " the associate ? " 

      " ah , well , there be no great mystery in that . but -PRON- will know all 
      about -PRON- soon enough . how sweet the morning air be ! see how that one 
      little cloud float like a pink feather from some gigantic flamingo . 
      now the red rim of the sun push -PRON- over the London cloud - bank . 
      -PRON- shine on a good many folk , but on none , -PRON- dare bet , who be on a 
      stranger errand than -PRON- and I. how small -PRON- feel with -PRON- petty 
      ambition and striving in the presence of the great elemental force 
      of nature ! be -PRON- well up in -PRON- Jean Paul ? " 

      " fairly so . -PRON- work back to -PRON- through Carlyle . " 

      " that be like follow the brook to the parent lake . -PRON- make one 
      curious but profound remark . -PRON- be that the chief proof of man 's real 
      greatness lie in -PRON- perception of -PRON- own smallness . -PRON- argue , -PRON- 
      see , a power of comparison and of appreciation which be in -PRON- a 
      proof of nobility . there be much food for thought in Richter . -PRON- 
      have not a pistol , have -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- stick . " 

      " -PRON- be just possible that -PRON- may need something of the sort if -PRON- get 
      to -PRON- lair . Jonathan -PRON- shall leave to -PRON- , but if the other turn 
      nasty -PRON- shall shoot -PRON- dead . " -PRON- take out -PRON- revolver as -PRON- speak , 
      and , have load two of the chamber , -PRON- put -PRON- back into the 
      right - hand pocket of -PRON- jacket . 

      -PRON- have during this time be follow the guidance of Toby down the 
      half - rural villa - line road which lead to the metropolis . now , 
      however , -PRON- be begin to come among continuous street , where 
      laborer and dockman be already astir , and slatternly woman be 
      take down shutter and brush door - step . at the square - top 
      corner public house business be just begin , and rough - look 
      man be emerge , rub -PRON- sleeve across -PRON- beard after 
      -PRON- morning wet . strange dog saunter up and stare wonderingly 
      at -PRON- as -PRON- pass , but -PRON- inimitable Toby look neither to the 
      right nor to the left , but trot onwards with -PRON- nose to the 
      ground and an occasional eager whine which speak of a hot scent . 

      -PRON- have traverse Streatham , Brixton , Camberwell , and now find 
      -PRON- in Kennington Lane , have borne away through the 
      side - street to the east of the Oval . the man whom -PRON- pursue seem 
      to have take a curiously zigzag road , with the idea probably of 
      escape observation . -PRON- have never keep to the main road if a 
      parallel side - street would serve -PRON- turn . at the foot of 
      Kennington Lane -PRON- have edge away to the left through Bond Street 
      and Miles Street . where the latter street turn into Knight 's place , 
      Toby cease to advance , but begin to run backwards and forwards with 
      one ear cock and the other drooping , the very picture of canine 
      indecision . then -PRON- waddle round in circle , look up to -PRON- from 
      time to time , as if to ask for sympathy in -PRON- embarrassment . 

      " what the deuce be the matter with the dog ? " growl Holmes . " -PRON- 
      surely would not take a cab , or go off in a balloon . " 

      " perhaps -PRON- stand here for some time , " -PRON- suggest . 

      " ah ! -PRON- be all right . -PRON- be off again , " say -PRON- companion , in a tone of 
      relief . 

      -PRON- be indeed off , for after sniff round again -PRON- suddenly make up 
      -PRON- mind , and dart away with an energy and determination such as -PRON- 
      have not yet show . the scent appear to be much hot than before , 
      for -PRON- have not even to put -PRON- nose on the ground , but tug at -PRON- 
      leash and try to break into a run . -PRON- cold see by the gleam in 
      Holmes 's eye that -PRON- think -PRON- be near the end of -PRON- journey . 

      -PRON- course now run down Nine Elms until -PRON- come to Broderick and 
      Nelson 's large timber - yard , just past the White Eagle tavern . here 
      the dog , frantic with excitement , turn down through the side - gate 
      into the enclosure , where the sawyer be already at work . on the 
      dog race through sawdust and shaving , down an alley , round a 
      passage , between two wood - pile , and finally , with a triumphant yelp , 
      spring upon a large barrel which still stand upon the hand - trolley on 
      which -PRON- have be bring . with loll tongue and blink eye , 
      Toby stand upon the cask , look from one to the other of -PRON- for 
      some sign of appreciation . the stave of the barrel and the wheel of 
      the trolley be smear with a dark liquid , and the whole air be 
      heavy with the smell of creasote . 

      Sherlock Holmes and -PRON- look blankly at each other , and then burst 
      simultaneously into an uncontrollable fit of laughter . 





           CHAPTER viii 
           the Baker Street Irregulars 


      " what now ? " -PRON- ask . " Toby have lose -PRON- character for infallibility . " 

      " -PRON- act accord to -PRON- light , " say Holmes , lift -PRON- down 
      from the barrel and walk -PRON- out of the timber - yard . " if -PRON- 
      consider how much creasote be cart about London in one day , -PRON- be 
      no great wonder that -PRON- trail should have be cross . -PRON- be much 
      use now , especially for the seasoning of wood . poor Toby be not to 
      blame . " 

      " -PRON- must get on the main scent again , -PRON- suppose . " 

      " yes . and , fortunately , -PRON- have no distance to go . evidently what 
      puzzle the dog at the corner of Knight 's place be that there be 
      two different trail run in opposite direction . -PRON- take the 
      wrong one . -PRON- only remain to follow the other . " 

      there be no difficulty about this . on lead Toby to the place 
      where -PRON- have commit -PRON- fault , -PRON- cast about in a wide circle and 
      finally dash off in a fresh direction . 

      " -PRON- must take care that -PRON- do not now bring -PRON- to the place where 
      the creasote - barrel come from , " -PRON- observe . 

      " -PRON- have think of that . but -PRON- notice that -PRON- keep on the pavement , 
      whereas the barrel pass down the roadway . no , -PRON- be on the true 
      scent now . " 

      -PRON- tend down towards the river - side , run through Belmont Place 
      and Prince 's Street . at the end of Broad Street -PRON- run right down to 
      the water 's edge , where there be a small wooden wharf . Toby lead -PRON- 
      to the very edge of this , and there stand whine , look out on the 
      dark current beyond . 

      " -PRON- be out of luck , " say Holmes . " -PRON- have take to a boat here . " 
      several small punt and skiff be lie about in the water and on 
      the edge of the wharf . -PRON- take Toby round to each in turn , but , 
      though -PRON- sniff earnestly , -PRON- make no sign . 

      close to the rude landing - stage be a small brick house , with a 
      wooden placard sling out through the second window . " Mordecai Smith " 
      be print across -PRON- in large letter , and , underneath , " boat to 
      hire by the hour or day . " a second inscription above the door 
      inform -PRON- that a steam launch be kept,--a statement which be 
      confirm by a great pile of coke upon the jetty . Sherlock Holmes 
      look slowly round , and -PRON- face assume an ominous expression . 

      " this look bad , " say -PRON- . " these fellow be sharp than -PRON- 
      expect . -PRON- seem to have cover -PRON- track . there have , -PRON- fear , 
      be preconcerte management here . " 

      -PRON- be approach the door of the house , when -PRON- open , and a 
      little , curly - head lad of six come run out , follow by a 
      stoutish , red - faced woman with a large sponge in -PRON- hand . 

      " -PRON- come back and be wash , Jack , " -PRON- shout . " come back , -PRON- 
      young imp ; for if -PRON- father come home and find -PRON- like that , 
      -PRON- will let -PRON- hear of -PRON- . " 

      " dear little chap ! " say Holmes , strategically . " what a rosy - cheek 
      young rascal ! now , Jack , be there anything -PRON- would like ? " 

      the youth ponder for a moment . " -PRON- would like a shillin ' , " say -PRON- . 

      " nothing -PRON- would like better ? " 

      " -PRON- would like two shillin ' well , " the prodigy answer , after some 
      think . 

      " here -PRON- be , then ! Catch!--A fine child , Mrs. Smith ! " 

      " Lor ' bless -PRON- , sir , -PRON- be that , and forward . -PRON- get a'most too 
      much for -PRON- to manage , ' specially when -PRON- man be away day at a 
      time . " 

      " away , be -PRON- ? " say Holmes , in a disappointed voice . " -PRON- be sorry for 
      that , for -PRON- want to speak to Mr. Smith . " 

      " -PRON- be be away since yesterday mornin ' , sir , and , truth to tell , -PRON- 
      be beginnin ' to feel frightened about -PRON- . but if -PRON- be about a 
      boat , sir , maybe -PRON- could serve as well . " 

      " -PRON- want to hire -PRON- steam launch . " 

      " why , bless -PRON- , sir , -PRON- be in the steam launch that -PRON- have go . 
      that be what puzzle -PRON- ; for -PRON- know there be not more coal in -PRON- than 
      would take -PRON- to about Woolwich and back . if -PRON- would be away in the 
      barge -PRON- would ha ' think nothing ; for many a time a job have take -PRON- as 
      far as Gravesend , and then if there be much do there -PRON- may ha ' 
      stay over . but what good be a steam launch without coal ? " 

      " -PRON- may have buy some at a wharf down the river . " 

      " -PRON- may , sir , but -PRON- be not -PRON- way . many a time -PRON- have hear -PRON- 
      call out at the price -PRON- charge for a few odd bag . besides , -PRON- 
      do not like that wooden - legged man , wi ' -PRON- ugly face and outlandish 
      talk . what do -PRON- want always knockin ' about here for ? " 

      " a wooden - legged man ? " say Holmes , with bland surprise . 

      " yes , sir , a brown , monkey - face chap that be call more'n once for 
      -PRON- old man . -PRON- be -PRON- that rouse -PRON- up yesternight , and , what be 
      more , -PRON- man know -PRON- be comin ' , for -PRON- have steam up in the launch . -PRON- 
      tell -PRON- straight , sir , -PRON- do not feel easy in -PRON- mind about -PRON- . " 

      " but , -PRON- dear Mrs. Smith , " say Holmes , shrug -PRON- shoulder , " -PRON- 
      be frighten -PRON- about nothing . how could -PRON- possibly tell 
      that -PRON- be the wooden - legged man who come in the night ? -PRON- do not 
      quite understand how -PRON- can be so sure . " 

      " -PRON- voice , sir . -PRON- know -PRON- voice , which be kind o ' thick and foggy . 
      -PRON- tap at the winder,--about three -PRON- would be . ' show a leg , 
      matey , ' say -PRON- : ' time to turn out guard . ' -PRON- old man wake up 
      jim,--that be -PRON- eldest,--and away -PRON- go , without so much as a 
      word to -PRON- . -PRON- could hear the wooden leg clackin ' on the stone . " 

      " and be this wooden - legged man alone ? " 

      " Could not say , -PRON- be sure , sir . -PRON- do not hear no one else . " 

      " -PRON- be sorry , Mrs. Smith , for -PRON- want a steam launch , and -PRON- have 
      hear good report of the -- let -PRON- see , what be -PRON- name ? " 

      " the Aurora , sir . " 

      " ah ! -PRON- be not that old green launch with a yellow line , very broad 
      in the beam ? " 

      " no , indeed . -PRON- be as trim a little thing as any on the river . -PRON- be 
      be fresh paint , black with two red streak . " 

      " thank . -PRON- hope that -PRON- will hear soon from Mr. Smith . -PRON- be go 
      down the river ; and if -PRON- should see anything of the Aurora -PRON- shall 
      let -PRON- know that -PRON- be uneasy . a black funnel , -PRON- say ? " 

      " no , sir . black with a white band . " 

      " ah , of course . -PRON- be the side which be black . good - morning , Mrs. 
      Smith.--There be a boatman here with a wherry , Watson . -PRON- shall take 
      -PRON- and cross the river . 

      " the main thing with people of that sort , " say Holmes , as -PRON- sit in 
      the sheet of the wherry , " be never to let -PRON- think that -PRON- 
      information can be of the slight importance to -PRON- . if -PRON- do , 
      -PRON- will instantly shut up like an oyster . if -PRON- listen to -PRON- 
      under protest , as -PRON- be , -PRON- be very likely to get what -PRON- want . " 

      " -PRON- course now seem pretty clear , " say I. 

      " what would -PRON- do , then ? " 

      " -PRON- would engage a launch and go down the river on the track of the 
      Aurora . " 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , -PRON- would be a colossal task . -PRON- may have touch at 
      any wharf on either side of the stream between here and Greenwich . 
      below the bridge there be a perfect labyrinth of landing - place for 
      mile . -PRON- would take -PRON- day and day to exhaust -PRON- , if -PRON- set 
      about -PRON- alone . " 

      " employ the police , then . " 

      " no . -PRON- shall probably call Athelney Jones in at the last moment . -PRON- 
      be not a bad fellow , and -PRON- should not like to do anything which would 
      injure -PRON- professionally . but -PRON- have a fancy for work -PRON- out 
      -PRON- , now that -PRON- have go so far . " 

      " Could -PRON- advertise , then , ask for information from wharfinger ? " 

      " bad and bad ! -PRON- man would know that the chase be hot at -PRON- 
      heel , and -PRON- would be off out of the country . as -PRON- be , -PRON- be 
      likely enough to leave , but as long as -PRON- think -PRON- be perfectly 
      safe -PRON- will be in no hurry . Jones 's energy will be of use to -PRON- 
      there , for -PRON- view of the case be sure to push -PRON- into the daily 
      press , and the runaway will think that every one be off on the wrong 
      scent . " 

      " what be -PRON- to do , then ? " -PRON- ask , as -PRON- land near Millbank 
      Penitentiary . 

      " take this hansom , drive home , have some breakfast , and get an hour 's 
      sleep . -PRON- be quite on the card that -PRON- may be afoot to - night again . 
      stop at a telegraph - office , cabby ! -PRON- will keep Toby , for -PRON- may be 
      of use to -PRON- yet . " 

      -PRON- pull up at the Great Peter Street post - office , and Holmes 
      despatch -PRON- wire . " whom do -PRON- think that be to ? " -PRON- ask , as -PRON- 
      resume -PRON- journey . 

      " -PRON- be sure -PRON- do not know . " 

      " -PRON- remember the Baker Street division of the detective police force 
      whom -PRON- employ in the Jefferson Hope case ? " 

      " well , " say -PRON- , laugh . 

      " this be just the case where -PRON- may be invaluable . if -PRON- fail , 
      -PRON- have other resource ; but -PRON- shall try -PRON- first . that wire be to 
      -PRON- dirty little lieutenant , Wiggins , and -PRON- expect that -PRON- and -PRON- 
      gang will be with -PRON- before -PRON- have finish -PRON- breakfast . " 

      -PRON- be between eight and nine o'clock now , and -PRON- be conscious of a 
      strong reaction after the successive excitement of the night . -PRON- be 
      limp and weary , befog in mind and fatigue in body . -PRON- have not the 
      professional enthusiasm which carry -PRON- companion on , nor could -PRON- 
      look at the matter as a mere abstract intellectual problem . as far as 
      the death of Bartholomew Sholto go , -PRON- have hear little good of -PRON- , 
      and could feel no intense antipathy to -PRON- murderer . the treasure , 
      however , be a different matter . that , or part of -PRON- , belonged 
      rightfully to Miss Morstan . while there be a chance of recover -PRON- 
      -PRON- be ready to devote -PRON- life to the one object . true , if -PRON- find -PRON- 
      -PRON- would probably put -PRON- forever beyond -PRON- reach . yet -PRON- would be a 
      petty and selfish love which would be influence by such a thought as 
      that . if Holmes could work to find the criminal , -PRON- have a tenfold 
      strong reason to urge -PRON- on to find the treasure . 

      a bath at Baker Street and a complete change freshen -PRON- up 
      wonderfully . when -PRON- come down to -PRON- room -PRON- find the breakfast lay 
      and Holmes pour out the coffee . 

      " here -PRON- be , " say -PRON- , laugh , and point to an open newspaper . 
      " the energetic Jones and the ubiquitous reporter have fix -PRON- up 
      between -PRON- . but -PRON- have have enough of the case . well have -PRON- 
      ham and egg first . " 

      -PRON- take the paper from -PRON- and read the short notice , which be head 
      " Mysterious Business at Upper Norwood . " 

      " about twelve o'clock last night , " say the Standard , " Mr. 
      Bartholomew Sholto , of Pondicherry Lodge , Upper Norwood , be find 
      dead in -PRON- room under circumstance which point to foul play . as far 
      as -PRON- can learn , no actual trace of violence be find upon Mr. 
      Sholto 's person , but a valuable collection of indian gem which the 
      deceased gentleman have inherit from -PRON- father have be carry 
      off . the discovery be first make by Mr. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. 
      Watson , who have call at the house with Mr. Thaddeus Sholto , brother 
      of the deceased . by a singular piece of good fortune , Mr. Athelney 
      Jones , the well - know member of the detective police force , happen 
      to be at the Norwood Police Station , and be on the ground within 
      half an hour of the first alarm . -PRON- train and experience 
      faculty be at once direct towards the detection of the 
      criminal , with the gratifying result that the brother , Thaddeus 
      Sholto , have already be arrest , together with the housekeeper , 
      Mrs. Bernstone , an indian butler name Lal Rao , and a porter , or 
      gatekeeper , name McMurdo . -PRON- be quite certain that the thief or 
      thief be well acquaint with the house , for Mr. Jones 's 
      well - know technical knowledge and -PRON- power of minute observation 
      have enable -PRON- to prove conclusively that the miscreant could not 
      have enter by the door or by the window , but must have make -PRON- 
      way across the roof of the building , and so through a trap - door into 
      a room which communicate with that in which the body be find . this 
      fact , which have be very clearly make out , prove conclusively that 
      -PRON- be no mere haphazard burglary . the prompt and energetic action of 
      the officer of the law show the great advantage of the presence on 
      such occasion of a single vigorous and masterful mind . -PRON- can not but 
      think that -PRON- supply an argument to those who would wish to see -PRON- 
      detective more decentralized , and so bring into close and more 
      effective touch with the case which -PRON- be -PRON- duty to 
      investigate . " 

      " be not -PRON- gorgeous ! " say Holmes , grin over -PRON- coffee - cup . " what 
      do -PRON- think of -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- think that -PRON- have have a close shave -PRON- of be arrest 
      for the crime . " 

      " so do I. -PRON- would not answer for -PRON- safety now , if -PRON- should happen 
      to have another of -PRON- attack of energy . " 

      at this moment there be a loud ring at the bell , and -PRON- could hear 
      Mrs. Hudson , -PRON- landlady , raise -PRON- voice in a wail of 
      expostulation and dismay . 

      " by heaven , Holmes , " -PRON- say , half rise , " -PRON- believe that -PRON- be 
      really after -PRON- . " 

      " no , -PRON- be not quite so bad as that . -PRON- be the unofficial force,--the 
      Baker Street irregular . " 

      as -PRON- speak , there come a swift pattering of naked foot upon the 
      stair , a clatter of high voice , and in rush a dozen dirty and 
      rag little street - Arabs . there be some show of discipline among 
      -PRON- , despite -PRON- tumultuous entry , for -PRON- instantly draw up in 
      line and stand face -PRON- with expectant face . one of -PRON- number , 
      tall and old than the other , stand forward with an air of 
      lounge superiority which be very funny in such a disreputable 
      little carecrow . 

      " got -PRON- message , sir , " say -PRON- , " and bring -PRON- on sharp . three 
      bob and a tanner for ticket . " 

      " here -PRON- be , " say Holmes , produce some silver . " in future -PRON- 
      can report to -PRON- , Wiggins , and -PRON- to -PRON- . -PRON- can not have the house 
      invade in this way . however , -PRON- be just as well that -PRON- should all 
      hear the instruction . -PRON- want to find the whereabouts of a steam 
      launch call the Aurora , owner Mordecai Smith , black with two red 
      streak , funnel black with a white band . -PRON- be down the river 
      somewhere . -PRON- want one boy to be at Mordecai Smith 's landing - stage 
      opposite Millbank to say if the boat come back . -PRON- must divide -PRON- 
      out among yourself , and do both bank thoroughly . let -PRON- know the 
      moment -PRON- have news . be that all clear ? " 

      " yes , guv'nor , " say Wiggins . 

      " the old scale of pay , and a guinea to the boy who find the boat . 
      here be a day in advance . now off -PRON- go ! " -PRON- hand -PRON- a shilling 
      each , and away -PRON- buzz down the stair , and -PRON- see -PRON- a moment 
      later stream down the street . 

      " if the launch be above water -PRON- will find -PRON- , " say Holmes , as -PRON- 
      rise from the table and light -PRON- pipe . " -PRON- can go everywhere , see 
      everything , overhear every one . -PRON- expect to hear before evening that 
      -PRON- have spot -PRON- . in the mean while , -PRON- can do nothing but await 
      result . -PRON- can not pick up the broken trail until -PRON- find either the 
      Aurora or Mr. Mordecai Smith . " 

      " Toby could eat these scrap , -PRON- dare say . be -PRON- go to bed , 
      Holmes ? " 

      " no : -PRON- be not tired . -PRON- have a curious constitution . -PRON- never remember 
      feel tired by work , though idleness exhaust -PRON- completely . -PRON- be 
      go to smoke and to think over this queer business to which -PRON- fair 
      client have introduce -PRON- . if ever man have an easy task , this of ours 
      ought to be . wooden - legged man be not so common , but the other man 
      must , -PRON- should think , be absolutely unique . " 

      " that other man again ! " 

      " -PRON- have no wish to make a mystery of him,--to -PRON- , anyway . but -PRON- 
      must have form -PRON- own opinion . now , do consider the datum . 
      diminutive footmark , toe never fetter by boot , naked foot , 
      stone - head wooden mace , great agility , small poison dart . what 
      do -PRON- make of all this ? " 

      " a savage ! " -PRON- exclaim . " perhaps one of those Indians who be the 
      associate of Jonathan Small . " 

      " hardly that , " say -PRON- . " when first -PRON- see sign of strange weapon -PRON- 
      be inclined to think so ; but the remarkable character of the 
      footmark cause -PRON- to reconsider -PRON- view . some of the inhabitant 
      of the Indian Peninsula be small man , but none could have leave such 
      mark as that . the Hindoo proper have long and thin foot . the 
      sandal - wear Mohammedan have the great toe well separate from the 
      other , because the thong be commonly pass between . these little 
      dart , too , could only be shoot in one way . -PRON- be from a blow - pipe . 
      now , then , where be -PRON- to find -PRON- savage ? " 

      " South American , " -PRON- hazard . 

      -PRON- stretch -PRON- hand up , and take down a bulky volume from the 
      shelf . " this be the first volume of a gazetteer which be now be 
      publish . -PRON- may be look upon as the very late authority . what 
      have -PRON- here ? ' Andaman Islands , situate 340 mile to the north of 
      Sumatra , in the Bay of Bengal . ' hum ! hum !   what be all this ? moist 
      climate , coral reef , shark , Port Blair , convict - barrack , Rutland 
      Island , cottonwood -- ah , here -PRON- be . ' the aborigine of the Andaman 
      Islands may perhaps claim the distinction of be the small race 
      upon this earth , though some anthropologist prefer the Bushmen of 
      Africa , the Digger Indians of America , and the Terra del Fuegians . 
      the average height be rather below four foot , although many 
      full - grown adult may be find who be very much small than this . 
      -PRON- be a fierce , morose , and intractable people , though capable of 
      form most devoted friendship when -PRON- confidence have once be 
      gain . ' mark that , Watson . now , then , listen to this . ' -PRON- be 
      naturally hideous , have large , misshapen head , small , fierce eye , 
      and distorted feature . -PRON- foot and hand , however , be remarkably 
      small . so intractable and fierce be -PRON- that all the effort of the 
      british official have fail to win -PRON- over in any degree . -PRON- 
      have always be a terror to shipwreck crew , brain the 
      survivor with -PRON- stone - head club , or shoot -PRON- with -PRON- 
      poison arrow . these massacre be invariably conclude by a 
      cannibal feast . ' nice , amiable people , Watson ! if this fellow have 
      be leave to -PRON- own unaided device this affair may have take an 
      even more ghastly turn . -PRON- fancy that , even as -PRON- be , Jonathan Small 
      would give a good deal not to have employ -PRON- . " 

      " but how come -PRON- to have so singular a companion ? " 

      " ah , that is more than -PRON- can tell . since , however , -PRON- have already 
      determine that Small have come from the Andamans , -PRON- be not so very 
      wonderful that this islander should be with -PRON- . no doubt -PRON- shall 
      know all about -PRON- in time . look here , Watson ; -PRON- look regularly 
      do . lie down there on the sofa , and see if -PRON- can put -PRON- to sleep . " 

      -PRON- take up -PRON- violin from the corner , and as -PRON- stretch -PRON- out 
      -PRON- begin to play some low , dreamy , melodious air,--his own , no doubt , 
      for -PRON- have a remarkable gift for improvisation . -PRON- have a vague 
      remembrance of -PRON- gaunt limb , -PRON- earnest face , and the rise and 
      fall of -PRON- bow . then -PRON- seem to be float peacefully away upon a 
      soft sea of sound , until -PRON- find -PRON- in dream - land , with the sweet 
      face of Mary Morstan look down upon -PRON- . 





           CHAPTER IX 
           a Break in the Chain 


      -PRON- be late in the afternoon before -PRON- wake , strengthen and 
      refresh . Sherlock Holmes still sit exactly as -PRON- have leave -PRON- , save 
      that -PRON- have lay aside -PRON- violin and be deep in a book . -PRON- look 
      across at -PRON- , as -PRON- stir , and -PRON- notice that -PRON- face be dark and 
      trouble . 

      " -PRON- have sleep soundly , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- fear that -PRON- talk would wake 
      -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- hear nothing , " -PRON- answer . " have -PRON- have fresh news , then ? " 

      " unfortunately , no . -PRON- confess that -PRON- be surprised and disappointed . -PRON- 
      expect something definite by this time .   Wiggins have just be up 
      to report . -PRON- say that no trace can be find of the launch . -PRON- be a 
      provoking check , for every hour be of importance . " 

      " Can -PRON- do anything ? -PRON- be perfectly fresh now , and quite ready for 
      another night 's outing . " 

      " no , -PRON- can do nothing . -PRON- can only wait . if -PRON- go -PRON- , the 
      message may come in -PRON- absence , and delay be cause . -PRON- can do 
      what -PRON- will , but -PRON- must remain on guard . " 

      " then -PRON- shall run over to camberwell and call upon Mrs. Cecil 
      Forrester . -PRON- ask -PRON- to , yesterday . " 

      " on Mrs. Cecil Forrester ? " ask Holmes , with the twinkle of a smile 
      in -PRON- eye . 

      " well , of course Miss Morstan too . -PRON- be anxious to hear what 
      happen . " 

      " -PRON- would not tell -PRON- too much , " say Holmes . " woman be never to be 
      entirely trusted,--not the good of -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- do not pause to argue over this atrocious sentiment . " -PRON- shall be 
      back in an hour or two , " -PRON- remark . 

      " all right ! good luck ! but , -PRON- say , if -PRON- be cross the river -PRON- 
      may as well return Toby , for -PRON- do not think -PRON- be at all likely that 
      -PRON- shall have any use for -PRON- now . " 

      -PRON- take -PRON- mongrel accordingly , and leave -PRON- , together with a 
      half - sovereign , at the old naturalist be in Pinchin Lane . at 
      Camberwell -PRON- find Miss Morstan a little weary after -PRON- night 's 
      adventure , but very eager to hear the news . Mrs. Forrester , too , be 
      full of curiosity . -PRON- tell -PRON- all that -PRON- have do , suppress , 
      however , the more dreadful part of the tragedy . thus , although -PRON- 
      speak of Mr. Sholto 's death , -PRON- say nothing of the exact manner and 
      method of -PRON- . with all -PRON- omission , however , there be enough to 
      startle and amaze -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be a romance ! " cry Mrs. Forrester . " an injured lady , half a 
      million in treasure , a black cannibal , and a wooden - legged ruffian . 
      -PRON- take the place of the conventional dragon or wicked earl . " 

      " and two knight - errant to the rescue , " add Miss Morstan , with a 
      bright glance at -PRON- . 

      " why , Mary , -PRON- fortune depend upon the issue of this search . -PRON- 
      do not think that -PRON- be nearly excite enough . just imagine what -PRON- 
      must be to be so rich , and to have the world at -PRON- foot ! " 

      -PRON- send a little thrill of joy to -PRON- heart to notice that -PRON- show 
      no sign of elation at the prospect . on the contrary , -PRON- give a toss 
      of -PRON- proud head , as though the matter be one in which -PRON- take 
      small interest . 

      " -PRON- be for Mr. Thaddeus Sholto that -PRON- be anxious , " -PRON- say . " nothing 
      else be of any consequence ; but -PRON- think that -PRON- have behave most 
      kindly and honorably throughout . -PRON- be -PRON- duty to clear -PRON- of this 
      dreadful and unfounded charge . " 

      -PRON- be evening before -PRON- leave Camberwell , and quite dark by the time -PRON- 
      reach home . -PRON- companion 's book and pipe lie by -PRON- chair , but -PRON- 
      have disappear . -PRON- look about in the hope of see a note , but 
      there be none . 

      " -PRON- suppose that Mr. Sherlock Holmes have go out , " -PRON- say to Mrs. 
      Hudson as -PRON- come up to lower the blind . 

      " no , sir . -PRON- have go to -PRON- room , sir . do -PRON- know , sir , " sink 
      -PRON- voice into an impressive whisper , " -PRON- be afraid for -PRON- health ? " 

      " why so , Mrs. Hudson ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be that strange , sir . after -PRON- be go -PRON- walk and -PRON- 
      walk , up and down , and up and down , until -PRON- be weary of the sound 
      of -PRON- footstep . then -PRON- hear -PRON- talk to -PRON- and mutter , 
      and every time the bell ring out -PRON- come on the stairhead , with ' what 
      be that , Mrs. Hudson ? ' and now -PRON- have slam off to -PRON- room , but -PRON- 
      can hear -PRON- walk away the same as ever . -PRON- hope -PRON- be not go to 
      be ill , sir . -PRON- venture to say something to -PRON- about cool 
      medicine , but -PRON- turn on -PRON- , sir , with such a look that -PRON- do not 
      know how ever -PRON- get out of the room . " 

      " -PRON- do not think that -PRON- have any cause to be uneasy , Mrs. Hudson , " -PRON- 
      answer . " -PRON- have see -PRON- like this before . -PRON- have some small matter 
      upon -PRON- mind which make -PRON- restless . " -PRON- try to speak lightly to 
      -PRON- worthy landlady , but -PRON- be -PRON- somewhat uneasy when through 
      the long night -PRON- still from time to time hear the dull sound of -PRON- 
      tread , and know how -PRON- keen spirit be chafe against this 
      involuntary inaction . 

      at breakfast - time -PRON- look worn and haggard , with a little fleck of 
      feverish color upon either cheek . 

      " -PRON- be knock -PRON- up , old man , " -PRON- remark . " -PRON- hear -PRON- 
      march about in the night . " 

      " no , -PRON- could not sleep , " -PRON- answer . " this infernal problem be 
      consume -PRON- . -PRON- be too much to be balk by so petty an obstacle , 
      when all else have be overcome . -PRON- know the man , the launch , 
      everything ; and yet -PRON- can get no news . -PRON- have set other agency at 
      work , and use every mean at -PRON- disposal . the whole river have be 
      search on either side , but there be no news , nor have Mrs. Smith 
      hear of -PRON- husband . -PRON- shall come to the conclusion soon that -PRON- 
      have scuttle the craft . but there be objection to that . " 

      " or that Mrs. Smith have put -PRON- on a wrong scent . " 

      " no , -PRON- think that may be dismiss . -PRON- have inquiry make , and there 
      be a launch of that description . " 

      " Could -PRON- have go up the river ? " 

      " -PRON- have consider that possibility too , and there be a search - party 
      who will work up as far as Richmond . if no news come to - day , -PRON- shall 
      start off -PRON- to - morrow , and go for the man rather than the boat . 
      but surely , surely , -PRON- shall hear something . " 

      -PRON- do not , however . not a word come to -PRON- either from Wiggins or 
      from the other agency . there be article in most of the paper 
      upon the Norwood tragedy . -PRON- all appear to be rather hostile to 
      the unfortunate Thaddeus Sholto . no fresh detail be to be find , 
      however , in any of -PRON- , save that an inquest be to be hold upon the 
      follow day . -PRON- walk over to Camberwell in the evening to report 
      -PRON- ill success to the lady , and on -PRON- return -PRON- find Holmes 
      deject and somewhat morose . -PRON- would hardly reply to -PRON- question , 
      and busy -PRON- all evening in an abstruse chemical analysis which 
      involve much heating of retort and distil of vapor , end at 
      last in a smell which fairly drive -PRON- out of the apartment . up to the 
      small hour of the morning -PRON- could hear the clinking of -PRON- 
      test - tube which tell -PRON- that -PRON- be still engage in -PRON- malodorous 
      experiment . 

      in the early dawn -PRON- wake with a start , and be surprised to find -PRON- 
      stand by -PRON- bedside , clothe in a rude sailor dress with a 
      pea - jacket , and a coarse red scarf round -PRON- neck . 

      " -PRON- be off down the river , Watson , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- have be turn -PRON- 
      over in -PRON- mind , and -PRON- can see only one way out of -PRON- . -PRON- be worth 
      try , at all event . " 

      " surely -PRON- can come with -PRON- , then ? " say I. 

      " no ; -PRON- can be much more useful if -PRON- will remain here as -PRON- 
      representative . -PRON- be loath to go , for -PRON- be quite on the card that 
      some message may come during the day , though Wiggins be despondent 
      about -PRON- last night . -PRON- want -PRON- to open all note and telegram , and 
      to act on -PRON- own judgment if any news should come . Can -PRON- rely upon 
      -PRON- ? " 

      " most certainly . " 

      " -PRON- be afraid that -PRON- will not be able to wire to -PRON- , for -PRON- can 
      hardly tell yet where -PRON- may find -PRON- . if -PRON- be in luck , however , -PRON- 
      may not be go so very long . -PRON- shall have news of some sort or other 
      before -PRON- get back . " 

      -PRON- have hear nothing of -PRON- by breakfast - time . on open the 
      Standard , however , -PRON- find that there be a fresh allusion to the 
      business . 

      " with reference to the Upper Norwood tragedy , " -PRON- remark , " -PRON- have 
      reason to believe that the matter promise to be even more complex 
      and mysterious than be originally suppose . fresh evidence have show 
      that -PRON- be quite impossible that Mr. Thaddeus Sholto could have be 
      in any way concern in the matter . -PRON- and the housekeeper , Mrs. 
      Bernstone , be both release yesterday evening . -PRON- be believe , 
      however , that the police have a clue as to the real culprit , and 
      that -PRON- be be prosecute by Mr. Athelney Jones , of Scotland Yard , 
      with all -PRON- well - know energy and sagacity . further arrest may be 
      expect at any moment . " 

      " that be satisfactory so far as -PRON- go , " think I. " Friend Sholto 
      be safe , at any rate . -PRON- wonder what the fresh clue may be ; though -PRON- 
      seem to be a stereotype form whenever the police have make a 
      blunder . " 

      -PRON- toss the paper down upon the table , but at that moment -PRON- eye 
      catch an advertisement in the agony column . -PRON- run in this way : 

      " Lost.--Whereas Mordecai Smith , boatman , and -PRON- son , Jim , leave 
      Smith 's Wharf at or about three o'clock last Tuesday morning in the 
      steam launch Aurora , black with two red stripe , funnel black with a 
      white band , the sum of five pound will be pay to any one who can 
      give information to Mrs. Smith , at Smith 's Wharf , or at 221b Baker 
      Street , as to the whereabouts of the say Mordecai Smith and the 
      launch Aurora . " 

      this be clearly Holmes 's doing . the Baker Street address be enough 
      to prove that . -PRON- strike -PRON- as rather ingenious , because -PRON- may be 
      read by the fugitive without -PRON- seeing in -PRON- more than the 
      natural anxiety of a wife for -PRON- miss husband . 

      -PRON- be a long day . every time that a knock come to the door , or a 
      sharp step pass in the street , -PRON- imagine that -PRON- be either Holmes 
      return or an answer to -PRON- advertisement . -PRON- try to read , but -PRON- 
      thought would wander off to -PRON- strange quest and to the 
      ill - assorted and villainous pair whom -PRON- be pursue . Could there 
      be , -PRON- wonder , some radical flaw in -PRON- companion 's reasoning . Might 
      -PRON- be suffer from some huge self - deception ? be -PRON- not possible 
      that -PRON- nimble and speculative mind have build up this wild theory 
      upon faulty premise ? -PRON- have never know -PRON- to be wrong ; and yet the 
      keen reasoner may occasionally be deceive . -PRON- be likely , -PRON- 
      think , to fall into error through the over - refinement of -PRON- 
      logic,--his preference for a subtle and bizarre explanation when a 
      plainer and more commonplace one lie ready to -PRON- hand . yet , on the 
      other hand , -PRON- have -PRON- see the evidence , and -PRON- have hear the 
      reason for -PRON- deduction . when -PRON- look back on the long chain of 
      curious circumstance , many of -PRON- trivial in -PRON- , but all 
      tend in the same direction , -PRON- could not disguise from -PRON- that 
      even if Holmes 's explanation be incorrect the true theory must be 
      equally outré and startling . 

      at three o'clock in the afternoon there be a loud peal at the bell , 
      an authoritative voice in the hall , and , to -PRON- surprise , no less a 
      person than Mr. Athelney Jones be show up to -PRON- . very different be 
      -PRON- , however , from the brusque and masterful professor of common sense 
      who have take over the case so confidently at Upper Norwood . -PRON- 
      expression be downcast , and -PRON- bearing meek and even apologetic . 

      " Good - day , sir ; good - day , " say -PRON- . " Mr. Sherlock Holmes be out , -PRON- 
      understand . " 

      " yes , and -PRON- can not be sure when -PRON- will be back . but perhaps -PRON- 
      would care to wait . take that chair and try one of these cigar . " 

      " thank -PRON- ; -PRON- do not mind if -PRON- do , " say -PRON- , mop -PRON- face with a 
      red bandanna handkerchief . 

      " and a whiskey - and - soda ? " 

      " well , half a glass . -PRON- be very hot for the time of year ; and -PRON- have 
      have a good deal to worry and try -PRON- . -PRON- know -PRON- theory about this 
      Norwood case ? " 

      " -PRON- remember that -PRON- express one . " 

      " well , -PRON- have be oblige to reconsider -PRON- . -PRON- have -PRON- net draw 
      tightly round Mr. Sholto , sir , when pop -PRON- go through a hole in the 
      middle of -PRON- . -PRON- be able to prove an alibi which could not be 
      shake . from the time that -PRON- leave -PRON- brother 's room -PRON- be never 
      out of sight of some one or other . so -PRON- could not be -PRON- who climb 
      over roof and through trap - door . -PRON- be a very dark case , and -PRON- 
      professional credit be at stake . -PRON- should be very glad of a little 
      assistance . " 

      " -PRON- all need help sometimes , " say I. 

      " -PRON- friend Mr. Sherlock Holmes be a wonderful man , sir , " say -PRON- , 
      in a husky and confidential voice . " -PRON- be a man who be not to be beat . 
      -PRON- have know that young man go into a good many case , but -PRON- never 
      see the case yet that -PRON- could not throw a light upon . -PRON- be 
      irregular in -PRON- method , and a little quick perhaps in jump at 
      theory , but , on the whole , -PRON- think -PRON- would have make a most 
      promising officer , and -PRON- do not care who know -PRON- . -PRON- have have a wire 
      from -PRON- this morning , by which -PRON- understand that -PRON- have get some 
      clue to this Sholto business . here be the message . " 

      -PRON- take the telegram out of -PRON- pocket , and hand -PRON- to -PRON- . -PRON- be 
      date from Poplar at twelve o'clock . " go to Baker Street at once , " -PRON- 
      say . " if -PRON- have not return , wait for -PRON- . -PRON- be close on the track 
      of the Sholto gang . -PRON- can come with -PRON- to - night if -PRON- want to be 
      in at the finish . " 

      " this sound well . -PRON- have evidently pick up the scent again , " say 
      I. 

      " ah , then -PRON- have be at fault too , " exclaim Jones , with evident 
      satisfaction . " even the good of -PRON- be throw off sometimes . of 
      course this may prove to be a false alarm ; but -PRON- be -PRON- duty as an 
      officer of the law to allow no chance to slip . but there be some one 
      at the door . perhaps this be -PRON- . " 

      a heavy step be hear ascend the stair , with a great wheezing and 
      rattle as from a man who be sorely put to -PRON- for breath . once or 
      twice -PRON- stop , as though the climb be too much for -PRON- , but at 
      last -PRON- make -PRON- way to -PRON- door and enter . -PRON- appearance 
      correspond to the sound which -PRON- have hear . -PRON- be an aged man , 
      clothe in seafare garb , with an old pea - jacket button up to -PRON- 
      throat . -PRON- back be bow , -PRON- knee be shaky , and -PRON- breathing 
      be painfully asthmatic . as -PRON- lean upon a thick oaken cudgel -PRON- 
      shoulder heave in the effort to draw the air into -PRON- lung . -PRON- have 
      a colored scarf round -PRON- chin , and -PRON- could see little of -PRON- face 
      save a pair of keen dark eye , overhang by bushy white brow , and 
      long gray side - whisker . altogether -PRON- give -PRON- the impression of a 
      respectable master mariner who have fall into year and poverty . 

      " what be -PRON- , -PRON- man ? " -PRON- ask . 

      -PRON- look about -PRON- in the slow methodical fashion of old age . 

      " be Mr. Sherlock Holmes here ? " say -PRON- . 

      " no ; but -PRON- be act for -PRON- . -PRON- can tell -PRON- any message -PRON- have 
      for -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be to -PRON- -PRON- -PRON- be to tell -PRON- , " say -PRON- . 

      " but -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be act for -PRON- . be -PRON- about Mordecai 
      Smith 's boat ? " 

      " yes . -PRON- know well where -PRON- be . an ' -PRON- know where the man -PRON- be after 
      be . an ' -PRON- know where the treasure be . -PRON- know all about -PRON- . " 

      " then tell -PRON- , and -PRON- shall let -PRON- know . " 

      " -PRON- be to -PRON- -PRON- be to tell -PRON- , " -PRON- repeat , with the petulant 
      obstinacy of a very old man . 

      " well , -PRON- must wait for -PRON- . " 

      " no , no ; -PRON- be not go to lose a whole day to please no one . if Mr. 
      Holmes be not here , then Mr. Holmes must find -PRON- all out for -PRON- . 
      -PRON- do not care about the look of either of -PRON- , and -PRON- will not tell a 
      word . " 

      -PRON- shuffle towards the door , but Athelney Jones get in front of -PRON- . 

      " wait a bit , -PRON- friend , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- have important information , 
      and -PRON- must not walk off . -PRON- shall keep -PRON- , whether -PRON- like or 
      not , until -PRON- friend return . " 

      the old man make a little run towards the door , but , as Athelney 
      Jones put -PRON- broad back up against -PRON- , -PRON- recognize the uselessness 
      of resistance . 

      " pretty sort o ' treatment this ! " -PRON- cry , stamp -PRON- stick . " -PRON- 
      come here to see a gentleman , and -PRON- two , who -PRON- never see in -PRON- 
      life , seize -PRON- and treat -PRON- in this fashion ! " 

      " -PRON- will be none the bad , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- shall recompense -PRON- for 
      the loss of -PRON- time . sit over here on the sofa , and -PRON- will not 
      have long to wait . " 

      -PRON- come across sullenly enough , and seat -PRON- with -PRON- face 
      rest on -PRON- hand . Jones and -PRON- resume -PRON- cigar and -PRON- talk . 
      suddenly , however , Holmes 's voice break in upon -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- think that -PRON- may offer -PRON- a cigar too , " -PRON- say . 

      -PRON- both start in -PRON- chair . there be Holmes sit close to -PRON- 
      with an air of quiet amusement . 

      " Holmes ! " -PRON- exclaim . " -PRON- here ! but where be the old man ? " 

      " here be the old man , " say -PRON- , hold out a heap of white hair . 
      " here -PRON- is,--wig , whisker , eyebrow , and all . -PRON- think -PRON- disguise 
      be pretty good , but -PRON- hardly expect that -PRON- would stand that 
      test . " 

      " ah , -PRON- rogue ! " cry Jones , highly delighted . " -PRON- would have make 
      an actor , and a rare one . -PRON- have the proper workhouse cough , and 
      those weak leg of your be worth ten pound a week . -PRON- think -PRON- know 
      the glint of -PRON- eye , though . -PRON- do not get away from -PRON- so easily , 
      -PRON- see . " 

      " -PRON- have be work in that get - up all day , " say -PRON- , light -PRON- 
      cigar . " -PRON- see , a good many of the criminal class begin to know 
      me,--especially since -PRON- friend here take to publish some of -PRON- 
      case : so -PRON- can only go on the war - path under some simple disguise 
      like this . -PRON- got -PRON- wire ? " 

      " yes ; that be what bring -PRON- here . " 

      " how have -PRON- case prosper ? " 

      " -PRON- have all come to nothing . -PRON- have have to release two of -PRON- 
      prisoner , and there be no evidence against the other two . " 

      " never mind . -PRON- shall give -PRON- two other in the place of -PRON- . but 
      -PRON- must put -PRON- under -PRON- order . -PRON- be welcome to all the 
      official credit , but -PRON- must act on the line that -PRON- point out . be 
      that agree ? " 

      " entirely , if -PRON- will help -PRON- to the man . " 

      " well , then , in the first place -PRON- shall want a fast police - boat -- a 
      steam launch -- to be at the Westminster Stairs at seven o'clock . " 

      " that be easily manage . there be always one about there ; but -PRON- can 
      step across the road and telephone to make sure . " 

      " then -PRON- shall want two stanch man , in case of resistance . " 

      " there will be two or three in the boat . what else ? " 

      " when -PRON- secure the man -PRON- shall get the treasure . -PRON- think that -PRON- 
      would be a pleasure to -PRON- friend here to take the box round to the 
      young lady to whom half of -PRON- rightfully belong . let -PRON- be the 
      first to open it.--Eh , Watson ? " 

      " -PRON- would be a great pleasure to -PRON- . " 

      " rather an irregular proceeding , " say Jones , shake -PRON- head . 
      " however , the whole thing be irregular , and -PRON- suppose -PRON- must wink at 
      -PRON- . the treasure must afterwards be hand over to the authority 
      until after the official investigation . " 

      " certainly . that be easily manage . one other point . -PRON- should much 
      like to have a few detail about this matter from the lip of 
      Jonathan Small -PRON- . -PRON- know -PRON- like to work the detail of -PRON- 
      case out . there be no objection to -PRON- have an unofficial interview 
      with -PRON- , either here in -PRON- room or elsewhere , as long as -PRON- be 
      efficiently guard ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be master of the situation . -PRON- have have no proof yet of 
      the existence of this Jonathan Small . however , if -PRON- can catch -PRON- -PRON- 
      do not see how -PRON- can refuse -PRON- an interview with -PRON- . " 

      " that be understand , then ? " 

      " perfectly . be there anything else ? " 

      " only that -PRON- insist upon -PRON- dining with -PRON- . -PRON- will be ready in 
      half an hour . -PRON- have oyster and a brace of grouse , with something a 
      little choice in white wines.--Watson , -PRON- have never yet recognize 
      -PRON- merit as a housekeeper . " 





           CHAPTER X 
           the end of the Islander 


      -PRON- meal be a merry one . Holmes coud talk exceedingly well when -PRON- 
      choose , and that night -PRON- do choose . -PRON- appear to be in a state of 
      nervous exaltation . -PRON- have never know -PRON- so brilliant . -PRON- speak on 
      a quick succession of subjects,--on miracle - play , on medieval 
      pottery , on Stradivarius violin , on the Buddhism of Ceylon , and on 
      the war - ship of the future,--handling each as though -PRON- have make a 
      special study of -PRON- . -PRON- bright humor mark the reaction from -PRON- 
      black depression of the precede day . Athelney Jones prove to be a 
      sociable soul in -PRON- hour of relaxation , and face -PRON- dinner with 
      the air of a bon vivant . for -PRON- , -PRON- feel elated at the thought 
      that -PRON- be near the end of -PRON- task , and -PRON- catch something of 
      Holmes 's gaiety . none of -PRON- allude during dinner to the cause which 
      have bring -PRON- together . 

      when the cloth be clear , Holmes glance at this watch , and fill 
      up three glass with port . " one bumper , " say -PRON- , " to the success of 
      -PRON- little expedition . and now -PRON- be high time -PRON- be off . have -PRON- 
      a pistol , Watson ? " 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- old service - revolver in -PRON- desk . " 

      " -PRON- have best take -PRON- , then . -PRON- be well to be prepare . -PRON- see that 
      the cab be at the door . -PRON- order -PRON- for half - past six . " 

      -PRON- be a little past seven before -PRON- reach the Westminster wharf , 
      and find -PRON- launch await -PRON- . Holmes eye -PRON- critically . 

      " be there anything to mark -PRON- as a police - boat ? " 

      " yes,--that green lamp at the side . " 

      " then take -PRON- off . " 

      the small change be make , -PRON- step on board , and the rope be 
      cast off . Jones , Holmes , and -PRON- sit in the stern . there be one man at 
      the rudder , one to tend the engine , and two burly police - inspector 
      forward . 

      " where to ? " ask Jones . 

      " to the Tower . tell -PRON- to stop opposite Jacobson 's Yard . " 

      -PRON- craft be evidently a very fast one . -PRON- shoot past the long line 
      of load barge as though -PRON- be stationary . Holmes smile with 
      satisfaction as -PRON- overhaul a river steamer and leave -PRON- behind -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- ought to be able to catch anything on the river , " -PRON- say . 

      " well , hardly that . but there be not many launch to beat -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- shall have to catch the Aurora , and -PRON- have a name for be a 
      clipper . -PRON- will tell -PRON- how the land lie , Watson . -PRON- recollect how 
      annoyed -PRON- be at be balk by so small a thing ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " well , -PRON- give -PRON- mind a thorough rest by plunge into a chemical 
      analysis . one of -PRON- great statesman have say that a change of 
      work be the good rest . so -PRON- be . when -PRON- have succeed in dissolving 
      the hydrocarbon which -PRON- be at work at , -PRON- come back to -PRON- problem of 
      the Sholtos , and think the whole matter out again . -PRON- boy have be 
      up the river and down the river without result . the launch be not at 
      any landing - stage or wharf , nor have -PRON- return . yet -PRON- could hardly 
      have be scuttle to hide -PRON- traces,--though that always remain 
      as a possible hypothesis if all else fail . -PRON- know this man Small 
      have a certain degree of low cunning , but -PRON- do not think -PRON- capable 
      of anything in the nature of delicate finesse . that be usually a 
      product of high education . -PRON- then reflect that since -PRON- have 
      certainly be in London some time -- as -PRON- have evidence that -PRON- 
      maintain a continual watch over Pondicherry Lodge -- -PRON- could hardly 
      leave at a moment 's notice , but would need some little time , if -PRON- 
      be only a day , to arrange -PRON- affair . that be the balance of 
      probability , at any rate . " 

      " -PRON- seem to -PRON- to be a little weak , " say I. " -PRON- be more probable 
      that -PRON- have arrange -PRON- affair before ever -PRON- set out upon -PRON- 
      expedition . " 

      " no , -PRON- hardly think so . this lair of -PRON- would be too valuable a 
      retreat in case of need for -PRON- to give -PRON- up until -PRON- be sure that 
      -PRON- could do without -PRON- . but a second consideration strike -PRON- . 
      Jonathan Small must have feel that the peculiar appearance of -PRON- 
      companion , however much -PRON- may have top - coat -PRON- , would give rise 
      to gossip , and possibly be associate with this Norwood tragedy . -PRON- 
      be quite sharp enough to see that . -PRON- have start from -PRON- 
      head - quarter under cover of darkness , and -PRON- would wish to get back 
      before -PRON- be broad light . now , -PRON- be past three o'clock , accord 
      to Mrs. Smith , when -PRON- get the boat . -PRON- would be quite bright , and 
      people would be about in an hour or so . therefore , -PRON- argue , -PRON- do 
      not go very far . -PRON- pay Smith well to hold -PRON- tongue , reserve 
      -PRON- launch for the final escape , and hurry to -PRON- lodging with 
      the treasure - box . in a couple of night , when -PRON- have time to see 
      what view the paper take , and whether there be any suspicion , -PRON- 
      would make -PRON- way under cover of darkness to some ship at 
      gravesend or in the Downs , where no doubt -PRON- have already arrange 
      for passage to America or the Colonies . " 

      " but the launch ? -PRON- could not have take that to -PRON- lodging . " 

      " quite so . -PRON- argue that the launch must be no great way off , in 
      spite of -PRON- invisibility . -PRON- then put -PRON- in the place of Small , 
      and look at -PRON- as a man of -PRON- capacity would . -PRON- would probably 
      consider that to send back the launch or to keep -PRON- at a wharf would 
      make pursuit easy if the police do happen to get on -PRON- track . how , 
      then , could -PRON- conceal the launch and yet have -PRON- at hand when 
      want ? -PRON- wonder what -PRON- should do -PRON- if -PRON- be in -PRON- shoe . -PRON- 
      could only think of one way of do -PRON- . -PRON- may land the launch over 
      to some boat - builder or repairer , with direction to make a trifling 
      change in -PRON- . -PRON- would then be remove to -PRON- shed or hard , and so 
      be effectually conceal , while at the same time -PRON- could have -PRON- at 
      a few hour ' notice . " 

      " that seem simple enough . " 

      " -PRON- be just these very simple thing which be extremely liable to be 
      overlook . however , -PRON- determine to act on the idea . -PRON- start at 
      once in this harmless seaman 's rig and inquire at all the yard down 
      the river . -PRON- draw blank at fifteen , but at the 
      sixteenth -- Jacobson's -- -PRON- learn that the Aurora have be hand over 
      to -PRON- two day ago by a wooden - legged man , with some trivial 
      direction as to -PRON- rudder . ' there be not naught amiss with -PRON- 
      rudder , ' say the foreman . ' there -PRON- lie , with the red streak . ' at 
      that moment who should come down but Mordecai Smith , the miss 
      owner ? -PRON- be rather the bad for liquor . -PRON- should not , of course , 
      have know -PRON- , but -PRON- bellow out -PRON- name and the name of -PRON- 
      launch . ' -PRON- want -PRON- to - night at eight o'clock , ' say he,--'eight 
      o'clock sharp , mind , for -PRON- have two gentleman who will not be keep 
      wait . ' -PRON- have evidently pay -PRON- well , for -PRON- be very flush of 
      money , chuck shilling about to the man . -PRON- follow -PRON- some 
      distance , but -PRON- subside into an ale - house : so -PRON- go back to the 
      yard , and , happen to pick up one of -PRON- boy on the way , -PRON- 
      station -PRON- as a sentry over the launch . -PRON- be to stand at water 's 
      edge and wave -PRON- handkerchief to -PRON- when -PRON- start . -PRON- shall be 
      lie off in the stream , and -PRON- will be a strange thing if -PRON- do not 
      take man , treasure , and all . " 

      " -PRON- have plan -PRON- all very neatly , whether -PRON- be the right man 
      or not , " say Jones ; " but if the affair be in -PRON- hand -PRON- should 
      have have a body of police in Jacobson 's Yard , and arrest -PRON- when 
      -PRON- come down . " 

      " which would have be never . this man small be a pretty shrewd 
      fellow . -PRON- would send a scout on ahead , and if anything make -PRON- 
      suspicious lie snug for another week . " 

      " but -PRON- may have stick to Mordecai Smith , and so be lead to -PRON- 
      hiding - place , " say I. 

      " in that case -PRON- should have waste -PRON- day . -PRON- think that -PRON- be a 
      hundred to one against Smith know where -PRON- live . as long as -PRON- 
      have liquor and good pay , why should -PRON- ask question ? -PRON- send -PRON- 
      message what to do . no , -PRON- think over every possible course , and 
      this be the good . " 

      while this conversation have be proceed , -PRON- have be shoot the 
      long series of bridge which span the Thames . as -PRON- pass the City 
      the last ray of the sun be gild the cross upon the summit of 
      St. Paul 's . -PRON- be twilight before -PRON- reach the Tower . 

      " that be Jacobson 's Yard , " say Holmes , point to a bristle of 
      mast and rig on the Surrey side . " cruise gently up and down here 
      under cover of this string of lighter . " -PRON- take a pair of 
      night - glass from -PRON- pocket and gaze some time at the shore . " -PRON- 
      see -PRON- sentry at -PRON- post , " -PRON- remark , " but no sign of a 
      handkerchief . " 

      " suppose -PRON- go down - stream a short way and lie in wait for -PRON- , " 
      say Jones , eagerly . -PRON- be all eager by this time , even the 
      policeman and stoker , who have a very vague idea of what be go 
      forward . 

      " -PRON- have no right to take anything for grant , " Holmes answer . " -PRON- 
      be certainly ten to one that -PRON- go down - stream , but -PRON- can not be 
      certain . from this point -PRON- can see the entrance of the yard , and 
      -PRON- can hardly see -PRON- . -PRON- will be a clear night and plenty of light . 
      -PRON- must stay where -PRON- be . see how the folk swarm over yonder in the 
      gaslight . " 

      " -PRON- be come from work in the yard . " 

      " dirty - look rascal , but -PRON- suppose every one have some little 
      immortal spark conceal about -PRON- . -PRON- would not think -PRON- , to look 
      at -PRON- . there be no a priori probability about -PRON- . a strange enigma 
      be man ! " 

      " some one call -PRON- a soul conceal in an animal , " -PRON- suggest . 

      " Winwood Reade be good upon the subject , " say Holmes . " -PRON- remark 
      that , while the individual man be an insoluble puzzle , in the 
      aggregate -PRON- become a mathematical certainty . -PRON- can , for example , 
      never foretell what any one man will do , but -PRON- can say with 
      precision what an average number will be up to . individual vary , but 
      percentage remain constant . so say the statistician . but do -PRON- see a 
      handkerchief ? surely there be a white flutter over yonder . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be -PRON- boy , " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- can see -PRON- plainly . " 

      " and there be the Aurora , " exclaim Holmes , " and go like the 
      devil ! full speed ahead , engineer . make after that launch with the 
      yellow light . by heaven , -PRON- shall never forgive -PRON- if -PRON- prove 
      to have the heel of -PRON- ! " 

      -PRON- have slip unseen through the yard - entrance and pass behind 
      two or three small craft , so that -PRON- have fairly get -PRON- speed up 
      before -PRON- see -PRON- . now -PRON- be fly down the stream , near in to the 
      shore , go at a tremendous rate . Jones look gravely at -PRON- and 
      shake -PRON- head . 

      " -PRON- be very fast , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- doubt if -PRON- shall catch -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- must catch -PRON- ! " cry Holmes , between -PRON- tooth . " heap -PRON- on , 
      stoker ! make -PRON- do all -PRON- can ! if -PRON- burn the boat -PRON- must have 
      -PRON- ! " 

      -PRON- be fairly after -PRON- now . the furnace roar , and the powerful 
      engine whiz and clank , like a great metallic heart . -PRON- sharp , 
      steep prow cut through the river - water and send two roll wave to 
      right and to leave of -PRON- . with every throb of the engine -PRON- spring 
      and quiver like a live thing . one great yellow lantern in -PRON- 
      bow throw a long , flicker funnel of light in front of -PRON- . right 
      ahead a dark blur upon the water show where the Aurora lie , and the 
      swirl of white foam behind -PRON- speak of the pace at which -PRON- be 
      go . -PRON- flash past barge , steamer , merchant - vessel , in and 
      out , behind this one and round the other . voice hail -PRON- out of the 
      darkness , but still the Aurora thunder on , and still -PRON- follow 
      close upon -PRON- track . 

      " pile -PRON- on , man , pile -PRON- on ! " cry Holmes , look down into the 
      engine - room , while the fierce glow from below beat upon -PRON- eager , 
      aquiline face . " get every pound of steam -PRON- can . " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- gain a little , " say Jones , with -PRON- eye on the Aurora . 

      " -PRON- be sure of -PRON- , " say I. " -PRON- shall be up with -PRON- in a very few 
      minute . " 

      at that moment , however , as -PRON- evil fate would have -PRON- , a tug with 
      three barge in tow blunder in between -PRON- . -PRON- be only by put 
      -PRON- helm hard down that -PRON- avoid a collision , and before -PRON- could 
      round -PRON- and recover -PRON- way the Aurora have gain a good two 
      hundred yard . -PRON- be still , however , well in view , and the murky 
      uncertain twilight be set into a clear starlit night . -PRON- 
      boiler be strain to -PRON- utmost , and the frail shell vibrate 
      and creak with the fierce energy which be drive -PRON- along . -PRON- have 
      shoot through the Pool , past the West India Docks , down the long 
      Deptford Reach , and up again after round the Isle of Dogs . the 
      dull blur in front of -PRON- resolve -PRON- now clearly enough into the 
      dainty Aurora . Jones turn -PRON- search - light upon -PRON- , so that -PRON- 
      could plainly see the figure upon -PRON- deck . one man sit by the 
      stern , with something black between -PRON- knee over which -PRON- stoop . 
      beside -PRON- lie a dark mass which look like a Newfoundland dog . the 
      boy hold the tiller , while against the red glare of the furnace -PRON- 
      could see old Smith , strip to the waist , and shovel coal for 
      dear life . -PRON- may have have some doubt at first as to whether -PRON- 
      be really pursue -PRON- , but now as -PRON- follow every winding and 
      turn which -PRON- take there could no longer be any question about 
      -PRON- . at Greenwich -PRON- be about three hundred pace behind -PRON- . at 
      Blackwall -PRON- could not have be more than two hundred and fifty . -PRON- 
      have course many creature in many country during -PRON- checker 
      career , but never do sport give -PRON- such a wild thrill as this mad , 
      fly man - hunt down the Thames . steadily -PRON- draw in upon -PRON- , yard 
      by yard . in the silence of the night -PRON- could hear the panting and 
      clank of -PRON- machinery . the man in the stern still crouch upon 
      the deck , and -PRON- arm be move as though -PRON- be busy , while 
      every now and then -PRON- would look up and measure with a glance the 
      distance which still separate -PRON- . nearer -PRON- come and nearer . Jones 
      yell to -PRON- to stop . -PRON- be not more than four boat 's length 
      behind -PRON- , both boat fly at a tremendous pace . -PRON- be a clear 
      reach of the river , with Barking Level upon one side and the 
      melancholy plumstead marsh upon the other . at -PRON- hail the man in 
      the stern spring up from the deck and shake -PRON- two clinched fist at 
      -PRON- , curse the while in a high , cracked voice . -PRON- be a good - sized , 
      powerful man , and as -PRON- stand poise -PRON- with leg astride -PRON- 
      could see that from the thigh downward there be but a wooden stump 
      upon the right side . at the sound of -PRON- strident , angry cry there 
      be movement in the huddle bundle upon the deck . -PRON- straighten 
      -PRON- into a little black man -- the small -PRON- have ever see -- with a 
      great , misshapen head and a shock of tangle , dishevelled hair . 
      Holmes have already draw -PRON- revolver , and -PRON- whip out mine at the 
      sight of this savage , distorted creature . -PRON- be wrap in some sort 
      of dark ulster or blanket , which leave only -PRON- face expose ; but that 
      face be enough to give a man a sleepless night . never have -PRON- see 
      feature so deeply marked with all bestiality and cruelty . -PRON- small 
      eye glow and burn with a sombre light , and -PRON- thick lip be 
      writhe back from -PRON- tooth , which grin and chatter at -PRON- with a 
      half animal fury . 

      " fire if -PRON- raise -PRON- hand , " say Holmes , quietly . -PRON- be within a 
      boat' - length by this time , and almost within touch of -PRON- quarry . -PRON- 
      can see the two of -PRON- now as -PRON- stand , the white man with -PRON- 
      leg far apart , shriek out curse , and the unhallowed dwarf with 
      -PRON- hideous face , and -PRON- strong yellow tooth gnash at -PRON- in the 
      light of -PRON- lantern . 

      -PRON- be well that -PRON- have so clear a view of -PRON- . even as -PRON- look -PRON- 
      pluck out from under -PRON- cover a short , round piece of wood , 
      like a school - ruler , and clap -PRON- to -PRON- lip . -PRON- pistol ring out 
      together . -PRON- whirl round , throw up -PRON- arm , and with a kind of 
      choking cough fall sideways into the stream . -PRON- catch one glimpse of 
      -PRON- venomous , menacing eye amid the white swirl of the water . at 
      the same moment the wooden - legged man throw -PRON- upon the rudder 
      and put -PRON- hard down , so that -PRON- boat make straight in for the 
      southern bank , while -PRON- shoot past -PRON- stern , only clear -PRON- by a 
      few foot . -PRON- be round after -PRON- in an instant , but -PRON- be already 
      nearly at the bank . -PRON- be a wild and desolate place , where the moon 
      glimmer upon a wide expanse of marsh - land , with pool of stagnant 
      water and bed of decay vegetation . the launch with a dull thud 
      run up upon the mud - bank , with -PRON- bow in the air and -PRON- stern flush 
      with the water . the fugitive spring out , but -PRON- stump instantly sink 
      -PRON- whole length into the sodden soil . in vain -PRON- struggle and 
      writhe . not one step could -PRON- possibly take either forwards or 
      backwards . -PRON- yell in impotent rage , and kick frantically into 
      the mud with -PRON- other foot , but -PRON- struggle only bore -PRON- wooden 
      pin the deep into the sticky bank . when -PRON- bring -PRON- launch 
      alongside -PRON- be so firmly anchor that -PRON- be only by throw the 
      end of a rope over -PRON- shoulder that -PRON- be able to haul -PRON- out , 
      and to drag -PRON- , like some evil fish , over -PRON- side . the two Smiths , 
      father and son , sit sullenly in -PRON- launch , but come aboard meekly 
      enough when command . the Aurora -PRON- -PRON- haul off and make fast 
      to -PRON- stern . a solid iron chest of indian workmanship stand upon the 
      deck . this , there could be no question , be the same that have 
      contain the ill - omen treasure of the Sholtos . there be no key , 
      but -PRON- be of considerable weight , so -PRON- transfer -PRON- carefully to 
      -PRON- own little cabin . as -PRON- steam slowly up - stream again , -PRON- 
      flash -PRON- search - light in every direction , but there be no sign of 
      the Islander . somewhere in the dark ooze at the bottom of the Thames 
      lie the bone of that strange visitor to -PRON- shore . 

      " see here , " say Holmes , point to the wooden hatchway . " -PRON- be 
      hardly quick enough with -PRON- pistol . " there , sure enough , just 
      behind where -PRON- have be stand , stick one of those murderous dart 
      which -PRON- know so well . -PRON- must have whiz between -PRON- at the instant 
      that -PRON- fire . Holmes smile at -PRON- and shrug -PRON- shoulder in -PRON- 
      easy fashion , but -PRON- confess that -PRON- turn -PRON- sick to think of the 
      horrible death which have pass so close to -PRON- that night . 





           CHAPTER XI 
           the Great Agra Treasure 


      -PRON- captive sit in the cabin opposite to the iron box which -PRON- have 
      do so much and wait so long to gain . -PRON- be a sunburned , 
      reckless - eyed fellow , with a net - work of line and wrinkle all over 
      -PRON- mahogany feature , which tell of a hard , open - air life . there be 
      a singular prominence about -PRON- bearded chin which mark a man who 
      be not to be easily turn from -PRON- purpose . -PRON- age may have be 
      fifty or thereabout , for -PRON- black , curly hair be thickly shoot with 
      gray . -PRON- face in repose be not an unplease one , though -PRON- heavy 
      brow and aggressive chin give -PRON- , as -PRON- have lately see , a terrible 
      expression when move to anger . -PRON- sit now with -PRON- handcuffed hand 
      upon -PRON- lap , and -PRON- head sink upon -PRON- breast , while -PRON- look with 
      -PRON- keen , twinkle eye at the box which have be the cause of -PRON- 
      ill - doing . -PRON- seem to -PRON- that there be more sorrow than anger in 
      -PRON- rigid and contain countenance . once -PRON- look up at -PRON- with a 
      gleam of something like humour in -PRON- eye . 

      " well , Jonathan Small , " say Holmes , light a cigar , " -PRON- be sorry 
      that -PRON- have come to this . " 

      " and so be -PRON- , sir , " -PRON- answer , frankly . " -PRON- do not believe that -PRON- can 
      swing over the job . -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- word on the book that -PRON- never 
      raise hand against Mr. Sholto . -PRON- be that little hell - hound Tonga 
      who shoot one of -PRON- curse dart into -PRON- . -PRON- have no part in -PRON- , sir . 
      -PRON- be as grieve as if -PRON- have be -PRON- blood - relation . -PRON- welt the 
      little devil with the slack end of the rope for -PRON- , but -PRON- be do , 
      and -PRON- could not undo -PRON- again . " 

      " have a cigar , " say Holmes ; " and -PRON- have best take a pull out of -PRON- 
      flask , for -PRON- be very wet . how could -PRON- expect so small and weak a 
      man as this black fellow to overpower Mr. Sholto and hold -PRON- while 
      -PRON- be climb the rope ? " 

      " -PRON- seem to know as much about -PRON- as if -PRON- be there , sir . the 
      truth be that -PRON- hope to find the room clear . -PRON- know the habit of 
      the house pretty well , and -PRON- be the time when Mr. Sholto usually 
      go down to -PRON- supper . -PRON- shall make no secret of the business . the 
      good defence that -PRON- can make be just the simple truth . now , if -PRON- have 
      be the old major -PRON- would have swing for -PRON- with a light heart . -PRON- 
      would have think no more of knife -PRON- than of smoking this cigar . 
      but -PRON- be curse hard that -PRON- should be lag over this young Sholto , 
      with whom -PRON- have no quarrel whatever . " 

      " -PRON- be under the charge of Mr. Athelney Jones , of Scotland Yard . -PRON- 
      be go to bring -PRON- up to -PRON- room , and -PRON- shall ask -PRON- for a true 
      account of the matter . -PRON- must make a clean breast of -PRON- , for if -PRON- 
      do -PRON- hope that -PRON- may be of use to -PRON- .   -PRON- think -PRON- can prove that the 
      poison act so quickly that the man be dead before ever -PRON- reach 
      the room . " 

      " that -PRON- be , sir . -PRON- never get such a turn in -PRON- life as when -PRON- see 
      -PRON- grin at -PRON- with -PRON- head on -PRON- shoulder as -PRON- climb through 
      the window . -PRON- fairly shake -PRON- , sir . -PRON- would have half kill Tonga for 
      -PRON- if -PRON- have not scramble off . that be how -PRON- come to leave -PRON- 
      club , and some of -PRON- dart too , as -PRON- tell -PRON- , which -PRON- dare say 
      help to put -PRON- on -PRON- track ; though how -PRON- keep on -PRON- be more 
      than -PRON- can tell . -PRON- do not feel no malice against -PRON- for -PRON- . but -PRON- 
      do seem a queer thing , " -PRON- add , with a bitter smile , " that -PRON- who 
      have a fair claim to nigh upon half a million of money should spend 
      the first half of -PRON- life build a breakwater in the Andamans , and 
      be like to spend the other half dig drain at Dartmoor . -PRON- be an 
      evil day for -PRON- when first -PRON- clap eye upon the merchant Achmet 
      and have to do with the Agra treasure , which never bring anything 
      but a curse yet upon the man who own -PRON- . to -PRON- -PRON- bring murder , 
      to Major Sholto -PRON- bring fear and guilt , to -PRON- -PRON- have mean slavery 
      for life . " 

      at this moment Athelney Jones thrust -PRON- broad face and heavy 
      shoulder into the tiny cabin . " quite a family party , " -PRON- remark . 
      " -PRON- think -PRON- shall have a pull at that flask , Holmes .   well , -PRON- think -PRON- 
      may all congratulate each other . pity -PRON- do not take the other alive ; 
      but there be no choice . -PRON- say , Holmes , -PRON- must confess that -PRON- cut 
      -PRON- rather fine . -PRON- be all -PRON- could do to overhaul -PRON- . " 

      " all be well that end well , " say Holmes . " but -PRON- certainly do not 
      know that the Aurora be such a clipper . " 

      " Smith say -PRON- be one of the fast launch on the river , and that 
      if -PRON- have have another man to help -PRON- with the engine -PRON- should 
      never have catch -PRON- . -PRON- swear -PRON- know nothing of this Norwood 
      business . " 

      " neither -PRON- do , " cry -PRON- prisoner,--"not a word . -PRON- choose -PRON- 
      launch because -PRON- hear that -PRON- be a flier . -PRON- tell -PRON- nothing , but 
      -PRON- pay -PRON- well , and -PRON- be to get something handsome if -PRON- reach 
      -PRON- vessel , the Esmeralda , at Gravesend , outward bind for the 
      Brazils . " 

      " well , if -PRON- have do no wrong -PRON- shall see that no wrong come to 
      -PRON- . if -PRON- be pretty quick in catch -PRON- man , -PRON- be not so quick 
      in condemn -PRON- . " -PRON- be amusing to notice how the consequential 
      Jones be already begin to give -PRON- air on the strength of 
      the capture . from the slight smile which play over Sherlock 
      Holmes 's face , -PRON- could see that the speech have not be lose upon 
      -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- will be at Vauxhall Bridge presently , " say Jones , " and shall 
      land -PRON- , Dr. Watson , with the treasure - box . -PRON- need hardly tell -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be take a very grave responsibility upon -PRON- in do 
      this . -PRON- be most irregular ; but of course an agreement be an 
      agreement . -PRON- must , however , as a matter of duty , send an inspector 
      with -PRON- , since -PRON- have so valuable a charge . -PRON- will drive , no 
      doubt ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- shall drive . " 

      " -PRON- be a pity there be no key , that -PRON- may make an inventory first . 
      -PRON- will have to break -PRON- open . where be the key , -PRON- man ? " 

      " at the bottom of the river , " say Small , shortly . 

      " Hum ! there be no use -PRON- give this unnecessary trouble . -PRON- have 
      have work enough already through -PRON- . however , doctor , -PRON- need not warn 
      -PRON- to be careful . bring the box back with -PRON- to the Baker Street 
      room . -PRON- will find -PRON- there , on -PRON- way to the station . " 

      -PRON- land -PRON- at Vauxhall , with -PRON- heavy iron box , and with a bluff , 
      genial inspector as -PRON- companion . a quarter of an hour 's drive 
      bring -PRON- to Mrs. Cecil Forrester 's . the servant seem surprised at 
      so late a visitor . Mrs. Cecil Forrester be out for the evening , -PRON- 
      explain , and likely to be very late . Miss Morstan , however , be in 
      the drawing - room : so to the drawing - room -PRON- go , box in hand , leave 
      the obliging inspector in the cab . 

      -PRON- be seat by the open window , dress in some sort of white 
      diaphanous material , with a little touch of scarlet at the neck and 
      waist . the soft light of a shaded lamp fall upon -PRON- as -PRON- lean 
      back in the basket chair , play over -PRON- sweet , grave face , and 
      tint with a dull , metallic sparkle the rich coil of -PRON- luxuriant 
      hair . one white arm and hand droop over the side of the chair , and 
      -PRON- whole pose and figure speak of an absorb melancholy . at the 
      sound of -PRON- foot - fall -PRON- spring to -PRON- foot , however , and a bright 
      flush of surprise and of pleasure color -PRON- pale cheek . 

      " -PRON- hear a cab drive up , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- think that Mrs. Forrester 
      have come back very early , but -PRON- never dream that -PRON- may be -PRON- . 
      what news have -PRON- bring -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- have bring something well than news , " say -PRON- , put down the 
      box upon the table and speak jovially and boisterously , though -PRON- 
      heart be heavy within -PRON- . " -PRON- have bring -PRON- something which be 
      worth all the news in the world . -PRON- have bring -PRON- a fortune . " 

      -PRON- glance at iron box . " be that the treasure , then ? " -PRON- ask , 
      coolly enough . 

      " yes , this be the great agra treasure . half of -PRON- be yours and half 
      be Thaddeus Sholto 's . -PRON- will have a couple of hundred thousand 
      each . think of that ! an annuity of ten thousand pound . there will be 
      few rich young lady in England . be -PRON- not glorious ? " 

      -PRON- think that -PRON- must have be rather overact -PRON- delight , and that 
      -PRON- detect a hollow ring in -PRON- congratulation , for -PRON- see -PRON- 
      eyebrow rise a little , and -PRON- glance at -PRON- curiously . 

      " if -PRON- have -PRON- , " say -PRON- , " -PRON- owe -PRON- to -PRON- . " 

      " no , no , " -PRON- answer , " not to -PRON- , but to -PRON- friend Sherlock Holmes . 
      with all the will in the world , -PRON- could never have follow up a clue 
      which have tax even -PRON- analytical genius .   as -PRON- be , -PRON- very 
      nearly lose -PRON- at the last moment . " 

      " pray sit down and tell -PRON- all about -PRON- , Dr. Watson , " say -PRON- . 

      -PRON- narrate briefly what have occur since -PRON- have see -PRON- 
      last,--Holmes 's new method of search , the discovery of the Aurora , 
      the appearance of Athelney Jones , -PRON- expedition in the evening , and 
      the wild chase down the Thames . -PRON- listen with parted lip and 
      shine eye to -PRON- recital of -PRON- adventure . when -PRON- speak of the 
      dart which have so narrowly miss -PRON- , -PRON- turn so white that -PRON- 
      fear that -PRON- be about to faint . 

      " -PRON- be nothing , " -PRON- say , as -PRON- hasten to pour -PRON- out some water . 
      " -PRON- be all right again . -PRON- be a shock to -PRON- to hear that -PRON- have place 
      -PRON- friend in such horrible peril . " 

      " that be all over , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- be nothing . -PRON- will tell -PRON- no 
      more gloomy detail . let -PRON- turn to something bright . there be the 
      treasure . what could be bright than that ? -PRON- get leave to bring -PRON- 
      with -PRON- , think that -PRON- would interest -PRON- to be the first to see 
      -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- would be of the great interest to -PRON- , " -PRON- say . there be no 
      eagerness in -PRON- voice , however . -PRON- have strike -PRON- , doubtless , that 
      -PRON- may seem ungracious upon -PRON- part to be indifferent to a prize 
      which have cost so much to win . 

      " what a pretty box ! " -PRON- say , stoop over -PRON- . " this be indian 
      work , -PRON- suppose ? " 

      " yes ; -PRON- be Benares metal - work . " 

      " and so heavy ! " -PRON- exclaim , try to raise -PRON- . " the box alone 
      must be of some value . where be the key ? " 

      " Small throw -PRON- into the Thames , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- must borrow Mrs. 
      Forrester 's poker . " there be in the front a thick and broad hasp , 
      work in the image of a sit Buddha . under this -PRON- thrust the end 
      of the poker and twist -PRON- outward as a lever . the hasp spring open 
      with a loud snap . with tremble finger -PRON- fling back the lid . -PRON- 
      both stand gaze in astonishment . the box be empty ! 

      no wonder that -PRON- be heavy . the iron - work be two - third of an inch 
      thick all round . -PRON- be massive , well make , and solid , like a chest 
      construct to carry thing of great price , but not one shred or 
      crumb of metal or jewelry lie within -PRON- . -PRON- be absolutely and 
      completely empty . 

      " the treasure be lose , " say Miss Morstan , calmly . 

      as -PRON- listen to the word and realize what -PRON- mean , a great 
      shadow seem to pass from -PRON- soul . -PRON- do not know how this Agra 
      treasure have weigh -PRON- down , until now that -PRON- be finally remove . 
      -PRON- be selfish , no doubt , disloyal , wrong , but -PRON- could realize 
      nothing save that the golden barrier be go from between -PRON- . " thank 
      God ! " -PRON- ejaculate from -PRON- very heart . 

      -PRON- look at -PRON- with a quick , question smile . " why do -PRON- say 
      that ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " because -PRON- be within -PRON- reach again , " -PRON- say , take -PRON- hand . -PRON- 
      do not withdraw -PRON- . " because -PRON- love -PRON- , Mary , as truly as ever a 
      man love a woman . because this treasure , these rich , seal -PRON- 
      lip . now that -PRON- be go -PRON- can tell -PRON- how -PRON- love -PRON- . that be 
      why -PRON- say , ' thank God . ' " 

      " then -PRON- say , ' thank God , ' too , " -PRON- whisper , as -PRON- draw -PRON- to -PRON- 
      side . whoever have lose a treasure , -PRON- know that night that -PRON- have 
      gain one . 





           CHAPTER XII 
           the Strange Story of Jonathan Small 


      a very patient man be that inspector in the cab , for -PRON- be a weary 
      time before -PRON- rejoin -PRON- . -PRON- face cloud over when -PRON- show -PRON- 
      the empty box . 

      " there go the reward ! " say -PRON- , gloomily . " where there be no money 
      there be no pay . this night 's work would have be worth a tenner 
      each to Sam Brown and -PRON- if the treasure have be there . " 

      " Mr. Thaddeus Sholto be a rich man , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- will see that -PRON- 
      be reward , treasure or no . " 

      the inspector shake -PRON- head despondently , however . " -PRON- be a bad job , " 
      -PRON- repeat ; " and so Mr. Athelney Jones will think . " 

      -PRON- forecast prove to be correct , for the detective look blank 
      enough when -PRON- get to Baker Street and show -PRON- the empty box . -PRON- 
      have only just arrive , Holmes , the prisoner , and -PRON- , for -PRON- have 
      change -PRON- plan so far as to report -PRON- at a station upon 
      the way . -PRON- companion lounge in -PRON- arm - chair with -PRON- usual 
      listless expression , while Small sit stolidly opposite to -PRON- with 
      -PRON- wooden leg cock over -PRON- sound one . as -PRON- exhibit the empty 
      box -PRON- lean back in -PRON- chair and laugh aloud . 

      " this be -PRON- doing , Small , " say Athelney Jones , angrily . 

      " yes , -PRON- have put -PRON- away where -PRON- shall never lay hand upon -PRON- , " -PRON- 
      cry , exultantly . " -PRON- be -PRON- treasure ; and if -PRON- can not have the loot 
      -PRON- will take darn good care that no one else do . -PRON- tell -PRON- that no 
      live man have any right to -PRON- , unless -PRON- be three man who be in the 
      andaman convict - barrack and -PRON- . -PRON- know now that -PRON- can not have 
      the use of -PRON- , and -PRON- know that -PRON- can not . -PRON- have act all through 
      for -PRON- as much as for -PRON- . -PRON- be be the sign of four with -PRON- 
      always . well -PRON- know that -PRON- would have have -PRON- do just what -PRON- have 
      do , and throw the treasure into the Thames rather than let -PRON- go to 
      kith or kin of Sholto or of Morstan . -PRON- be not to make -PRON- rich 
      that -PRON- do for Achmet . -PRON- will find the treasure where the key be , 
      and where little Tonga be . when -PRON- see that -PRON- launch must catch -PRON- , 
      -PRON- put the loot away in a safe place . there be no rupee for -PRON- this 
      journey . " 

      " -PRON- be deceive -PRON- , Small , " say Athelney Jones , sternly . " if -PRON- 
      have wish to throw the treasure into the Thames -PRON- would have be 
      easy for -PRON- to have throw box and all . " 

      " easy for -PRON- to throw , and easy for -PRON- to recover , " -PRON- answer , 
      with a shrewd , sidelong look . " the man that be clever enough to hunt 
      -PRON- down be clever enough to pick an iron box from the bottom of a 
      river . now that -PRON- be scatter over five mile or so , -PRON- may be a 
      hard job . -PRON- go to -PRON- heart to do -PRON- , though . -PRON- be half mad when 
      -PRON- come up with -PRON- . however , there be no good grieving over -PRON- . -PRON- have 
      have up in -PRON- life , and -PRON- have have down , but -PRON- have learn not to cry 
      over spill milk . " 

      " this be a very serious matter , Small , " say the detective . " if -PRON- 
      have help justice , instead of thwart -PRON- in this way , -PRON- would 
      have have a well chance at -PRON- trial . " 

      " Justice ! " snarl the ex - convict . " a pretty justice ! whose loot be 
      this , if -PRON- be not ours ? where be the justice that -PRON- should give -PRON- 
      up to those who have never earn -PRON- ? look how -PRON- have earn -PRON- ! 
      twenty long year in that fever - ride swamp , all day at work under 
      the mangrove - tree , all night chain up in the filthy convict - hut , 
      bite by mosquito , rack with ague , bully by every curse 
      black - face policeman who love to take -PRON- out of a white man . that 
      be how -PRON- earn the Agra treasure ; and -PRON- talk to -PRON- of justice 
      because -PRON- can not bear to feel that -PRON- have pay this price only that 
      another may enjoy -PRON- ! -PRON- would rather swing a score of time , or have 
      one of Tonga 's dart in -PRON- hide , than live in a convict 's cell and 
      feel that another man be at -PRON- ease in a palace with the money that 
      should be -PRON- . " Small have drop -PRON- mask of stoicism , and all this 
      come out in a wild whirl of word , while -PRON- eye blaze , and the 
      handcuff clank together with the impassioned movement of -PRON- 
      hand . -PRON- could understand , as -PRON- see the fury and the passion of the 
      man , that -PRON- be no groundless or unnatural terror which have 
      possess Major Sholto when -PRON- first learn that the injure convict 
      be upon -PRON- track . 

      " -PRON- forget that -PRON- know nothing of all this , " say Holmes quietly . 
      " -PRON- have not hear -PRON- story , and -PRON- can not tell how far justice may 
      originally have be on -PRON- side . " 

      " well , sir , -PRON- have be very fair - spoken to -PRON- , though -PRON- can see 
      that -PRON- have -PRON- to thank that -PRON- have these bracelet upon -PRON- wrist . 
      still , -PRON- bear no grudge for that . -PRON- be all fair and above - board . if 
      -PRON- want to hear -PRON- story -PRON- have no wish to hold -PRON- back . what -PRON- say 
      to -PRON- be God 's truth , every word of -PRON- . thank -PRON- ; -PRON- can put the 
      glass beside -PRON- here , and -PRON- will put -PRON- lip to -PRON- if -PRON- be dry . 

      " -PRON- be a Worcestershire man myself,--born near Pershore . -PRON- dare say 
      -PRON- would find a heap of small live there now if -PRON- be to look . 
      -PRON- have often think of take a look round there , but the truth be 
      that -PRON- be never much of a credit to the family , and -PRON- doubt if -PRON- 
      would be so very glad to see -PRON- . -PRON- be all steady , chapel - go 
      folk , small farmer , well know and respect over the country - side , 
      while -PRON- be always a bit of a rover . at last , however , when -PRON- be 
      about eighteen , -PRON- give -PRON- no more trouble , for -PRON- get into a mess 
      over a girl , and could only get out of -PRON- again by take the queen 's 
      shill and join the 3d Buffs , which be just start for India . 

      " -PRON- be not destine to do much soldiering , however . -PRON- have just get 
      past the goose - step , and learn to handle -PRON- musket , when -PRON- be fool 
      enough to go swimming in the Ganges . luckily for -PRON- , -PRON- company 
      sergeant , John Holder , be in the water at the same time , and -PRON- be 
      one of the fine swimmer in the service . a crocodile take -PRON- , just 
      as -PRON- be half - way across , and nip off -PRON- right leg as clean as a 
      surgeon could have do -PRON- , just above the knee . what with the shock 
      and the loss of blood , -PRON- faint , and should have drown if Holder 
      have not catch hold of -PRON- and paddle for the bank . -PRON- be five month 
      in hospital over -PRON- , and when at last -PRON- be able to limp out of -PRON- 
      with this timber toe strap to -PRON- stump -PRON- find -PRON- invalided 
      out of the army and unfitted for any active occupation . 

      " -PRON- be , as -PRON- can imagine , pretty down on -PRON- luck at this time , for 
      -PRON- be a useless cripple though not yet in -PRON- twentieth year . however , 
      -PRON- misfortune soon prove to be a blessing in disguise . a man name 
      Abelwhite , who have come out there as an indigo - planter , want an 
      overseer to look after -PRON- coolie and keep -PRON- up to -PRON- work . -PRON- 
      happen to be a friend of -PRON- colonel 's , who have take an interest 
      in -PRON- since the accident . to make a long story short , the colonel 
      recommend -PRON- strongly for the post and , as the work be mostly to 
      be do on horseback , -PRON- leg be no great obstacle , for -PRON- have enough 
      knee leave to keep good grip on the saddle . what -PRON- have to do be to 
      ride over the plantation , to keep an eye on the man as -PRON- work , 
      and to report the idler . the pay be fair , -PRON- have comfortable 
      quarter , and altogether -PRON- be content to spend the remainder of -PRON- 
      life in indigo - planting . Mr. Abelwhite be a kind man , and -PRON- would 
      often drop into -PRON- little shanty and smoke a pipe with -PRON- , for white 
      folk out there feel -PRON- heart warm to each other as -PRON- never do 
      here at home . 

      " well , -PRON- be never in luck 's way long . suddenly , without a note of 
      warning , the great mutiny break upon -PRON- . one month India lie as still 
      and peaceful , to all appearance , as Surrey or Kent ; the next there 
      be two hundred thousand black devil let loose , and the country be 
      a perfect hell . of course -PRON- know all about -PRON- , gentlemen,--a deal 
      more than -PRON- do , very like , since reading be not in -PRON- line . -PRON- only 
      know what -PRON- see with -PRON- own eye . -PRON- plantation be at a place 
      call Muttra , near the border of the Northwest Provinces . night 
      after night the whole sky be alight with the burn bungalow , and 
      day after day -PRON- have small company of Europeans pass through -PRON- 
      estate with -PRON- wife and child , on -PRON- way to Agra , where 
      be the near troop . Mr. Abelwhite be an obstinate man . -PRON- have 
      -PRON- in -PRON- head that the affair have be exaggerate , and that -PRON- 
      would blow over as suddenly as -PRON- have spring up . there -PRON- sit on -PRON- 
      veranda , drink whiskey - peg and smoking cheroot , while the 
      country be in a blaze about -PRON- . of course -PRON- stick by -PRON- , -PRON- and 
      Dawson , who , with -PRON- wife , use to do the book - work and the 
      managing . well , one fine day the crash come . -PRON- have be away on a 
      distant plantation , and be ride slowly home in the evening , when 
      -PRON- eye fall upon something all huddle together at the bottom of a 
      steep nullah . -PRON- ride down to see what -PRON- be , and the cold strike 
      through -PRON- heart when -PRON- find -PRON- be Dawson 's wife , all cut into 
      ribbon , and half eat by jackal and native dog . a little further 
      up the road Dawson -PRON- be lie on -PRON- face , quite dead , with an 
      empty revolver in -PRON- hand and four sepoy lie across each other in 
      front of -PRON- . -PRON- rein up -PRON- horse , wonder which way -PRON- should 
      turn , but at that moment -PRON- see thick smoke curl up from 
      Abelwhite 's bungalow and the flame begin to burst through the 
      roof . -PRON- know then that -PRON- could do -PRON- employer no good , but would only 
      throw -PRON- own life away if -PRON- meddle in the matter . from where -PRON- stand 
      -PRON- could see hundred of the black fiend , with -PRON- red coat still 
      on -PRON- back , dance and howl round the burn house . some of 
      -PRON- point at -PRON- , and a couple of bullet sing past -PRON- head ; so -PRON- 
      break away across the paddy - field , and find -PRON- late at night 
      safe within the wall at Agra . 

      " as -PRON- prove , however , there be no great safety there , either . the 
      whole country be up like a swarm of bee . wherever the English could 
      collect in little band -PRON- hold just the ground that -PRON- gun 
      command . everywhere else -PRON- be helpless fugitive . -PRON- be a 
      fight of the million against the hundred ; and the cruell part of 
      -PRON- be that these man that -PRON- fight against , foot , horse , and 
      gunner , be -PRON- own pick troop , whom -PRON- have teach and train , 
      handle -PRON- own weapon , and blow -PRON- own bugle - call . at Agra 
      there be the 3d Bengal Fusiliers , some Sikhs , two troop of horse , 
      and a battery of artillery . a volunteer corps of clerk and merchant 
      have be form , and this -PRON- join , wooden leg and all . -PRON- go out 
      to meet the rebel at Shahgunge early in July , and -PRON- beat -PRON- back 
      for a time , but -PRON- powder give out , and -PRON- have to fall back upon the 
      city . nothing but the bad news come to -PRON- from every side,--which 
      be not to be wonder at , for if -PRON- look at the map -PRON- will see 
      that -PRON- be right in the heart of -PRON- . lucknow be rather well than 
      a hundred mile to the east , and Cawnpore about as far to the south . 
      from every point on the compass there be nothing but torture and 
      murder and outrage . 

      " the city of Agra be a great place , swarm with fanatic and fierce 
      devil - worshipper of all sort . -PRON- handful of man be lose among 
      the narrow , wind street . -PRON- leader move across the river , 
      therefore , and take up -PRON- position in the old fort at Agra . -PRON- do not 
      know if any of -PRON- gentleman have ever read or hear anything of that 
      old fort . -PRON- be a very queer place,--the queerest that ever -PRON- be in , 
      and -PRON- have be in some rum corner , too . first of all , -PRON- be 
      enormous in size . -PRON- should think that the enclosure must be acre and 
      acre . there be a modern part , which take all -PRON- garrison , woman , 
      child , store , and everything else , with plenty of room over . but 
      the modern part be nothing like the size of the old quarter , where 
      nobody go , and which be give over to the scorpion and the 
      centipede . -PRON- be all full of great deserted hall , and wind 
      passage , and long corridor twist in and out , so that -PRON- be easy 
      enough for folk to get lose in -PRON- . for this reason -PRON- be seldom that 
      any one go into -PRON- , though now and again a party with torch may 
      go explore . 

      " the river wash along the front of the old fort , and so protect 
      -PRON- , but on the side and behind there be many door , and these have 
      to be guard , of course , in the old quarter as well as in that which 
      be actually hold by -PRON- troop . -PRON- be short - handed , with hardly 
      man enough to man the angle of the building and to serve the gun . 
      -PRON- be impossible for -PRON- , therefore , to station a strong guard at 
      every one of the innumerable gate . what -PRON- do be to organize a 
      central guard - house in the middle of the fort , and to leave each gate 
      under the charge of one white man and two or three native . -PRON- be 
      select to take charge during certain hour of the night of a small 
      isolate door upon the southw side of the building . two sikh 
      trooper be place under -PRON- command , and -PRON- be instruct if 
      anything go wrong to fire -PRON- musket , when -PRON- may rely upon help 
      come at once from the central guard . as the guard be a good two 
      hundred pace away , however , and as the space between be cut up into 
      a labyrinth of passage and corridor , -PRON- have great doubt as to 
      whether -PRON- could arrive in time to be of any use in case of an 
      actual attack . 

      " well , -PRON- be pretty proud at have this small command give -PRON- , 
      since -PRON- be a raw recruit , and a game - legged one at that . for two 
      night -PRON- keep the watch with -PRON- Punjaubees . -PRON- be tall , 
      fierce - looking chap , Mahomet Singh and Abdullah Khan by name , both 
      old fighting - man who have bear arm against -PRON- at Chilian - wallah . 
      -PRON- could talk English pretty well , but -PRON- could get little out of 
      -PRON- . -PRON- prefer to stand together and jabber all night in -PRON- 
      queer Sikh lingo . for -PRON- , -PRON- use to stand outside the gate - way , 
      look down on the broad , wind river and on the twinkle light 
      of the great city . the beating of drum , the rattle of tomtom , and 
      the yell and howl of the rebel , drunk with opium and with bang , 
      be enough to remind -PRON- all night of -PRON- dangerous neighbor across 
      the stream . every two hour the officer of the night use to come 
      round to all the post , to make sure that all be well . 

      " the third night of -PRON- watch be dark and dirty , with a small , 
      drive rain . -PRON- be dreary work stand in the gate - way hour after 
      hour in such weather . -PRON- try again and again to make -PRON- sikhs talk , 
      but without much success . at two in the morning the round pass , 
      and break for a moment the weariness of the night . find that -PRON- 
      companion would not be lead into conversation , -PRON- take out -PRON- pipe , 
      and lay down -PRON- musket to strike the match . in an instant the two 
      Sikhs be upon -PRON- . one of -PRON- snatch -PRON- firelock up and level 
      -PRON- at -PRON- head , while the other hold a great knife to -PRON- throat and 
      swear between -PRON- tooth that -PRON- would plunge -PRON- into -PRON- if -PRON- move a 
      step . 

      " -PRON- first thought be that these fellow be in league with the 
      rebel , and that this be the beginning of an assault . if -PRON- door 
      be in the hand of the Sepoys the place must fall , and the woman 
      and child be treat as -PRON- be in Cawnpore . maybe -PRON- gentleman 
      think that -PRON- be just make out a case for -PRON- , but -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- 
      word that when -PRON- think of that , though -PRON- feel the point of the 
      knife at -PRON- throat , -PRON- open -PRON- mouth with the intention of give a 
      scream , if -PRON- be -PRON- last one , which may alarm the main guard . the 
      man who hold -PRON- seem to know -PRON- thought ; for , even as -PRON- brace 
      -PRON- to -PRON- , -PRON- whisper , ' do not make a noise . the fort be safe 
      enough . there be no rebel dog on this side of the river . ' there be 
      the ring of truth in what -PRON- say , and -PRON- know that if -PRON- raise -PRON- 
      voice -PRON- be a dead man . -PRON- could read -PRON- in the fellow 's brown eye . -PRON- 
      wait , therefore , in silence , to see what -PRON- be that -PRON- want 
      from -PRON- . 

      " ' listen to -PRON- , Sahib , ' say the tall and fiercer of the pair , the 
      one whom -PRON- call Abdullah Khan . ' -PRON- must either be with -PRON- now 
      or -PRON- must be silence forever . the thing be too great a one for -PRON- 
      to hesitate . either -PRON- be heart and soul with -PRON- on -PRON- oath on 
      the cross of the Christians , or -PRON- body this night shall be throw 
      into the ditch and -PRON- shall pass over to -PRON- brother in the rebel 
      army . there be no middle way . which be -PRON- to be , death or life ? -PRON- 
      can only give -PRON- three minute to decide , for the time be pass , 
      and all must be do before the round come again . ' 

      " ' how can -PRON- decide ? ' say I. ' -PRON- have not tell -PRON- what -PRON- want of 
      -PRON- . but -PRON- tell -PRON- now that if -PRON- be anything against the safety of 
      the fort -PRON- will have no truck with -PRON- , so -PRON- can drive home -PRON- 
      knife and welcome . ' 

      " ' -PRON- be nothing against the fort , ' say -PRON- . ' -PRON- only ask -PRON- to do 
      that which -PRON- countryman come to this land for . -PRON- ask -PRON- to be 
      rich . if -PRON- will be one of -PRON- this night , -PRON- will swear to -PRON- upon 
      the naked knife , and by the threefold oath which no Sikh be ever 
      know to break , that -PRON- shall have -PRON- fair share of the loot . a 
      quarter of the treasure shall be yours . -PRON- can say no fairer . ' 

      " ' but what be the treasure , then ? ' -PRON- ask . ' -PRON- be as ready to be rich 
      as -PRON- can be , if -PRON- will but show -PRON- how -PRON- can be do . ' 

      " ' -PRON- will swear , then , ' say -PRON- , ' by the bone of -PRON- father , by 
      the honor of -PRON- mother , by the cross of -PRON- faith , to raise no 
      hand and speak no word against -PRON- , either now or afterwards ? ' 

      " ' -PRON- will swear -PRON- , ' -PRON- answer , ' provide that the fort be not 
      endanger . ' 

      " ' then -PRON- comrade and -PRON- will swear that -PRON- shall have a quarter of 
      the treasure which shall be equally divide among the four of -PRON- . ' 

      " ' there be but three , ' say I. 

      " ' no ; Dost Akbar must have -PRON- share . -PRON- can tell the tale to -PRON- 
      while -PRON- await -PRON- . do -PRON- stand at the gate , Mahomet Singh , and 
      give notice of -PRON- come . the thing stand thus , Sahib , and -PRON- tell 
      -PRON- to -PRON- because -PRON- know that an oath be bind upon a Feringhee , 
      and that -PRON- may trust -PRON- . have -PRON- be a lie Hindoo , though -PRON- 
      have swear by all the god in -PRON- false temple , -PRON- blood would 
      have be upon the knife , and -PRON- body in the water . but the Sikh 
      know the Englishman , and the Englishman know the Sikh . Hearken , 
      then , to what -PRON- have to say . 

      " ' there be a rajah in the northern province who have much wealth , 
      though -PRON- land be small . much have come to -PRON- from -PRON- father , and 
      more still -PRON- have set by -PRON- , for -PRON- be of a low nature and 
      hoard -PRON- gold rather than spend -PRON- . when the trouble break out -PRON- 
      would be friend both with the lion and the tiger,--with the Sepoy 
      and with the company 's raj . soon , however , -PRON- seem to -PRON- that the 
      white man 's day be come , for through all the land -PRON- could hear of 
      nothing but of -PRON- death and -PRON- overthrow . yet , be a careful 
      man , -PRON- make such plan that , come what may , half at least of -PRON- 
      treasure should be leave to -PRON- . that which be in gold and silver -PRON- 
      keep by -PRON- in the vault of -PRON- palace , but the most precious stone 
      and the choice pearl that -PRON- have -PRON- put in an iron box , and send 
      -PRON- by a trusty servant who , under the guise of a merchant , should 
      take -PRON- to the fort at Agra , there to lie until the land be at peace . 
      thus , if the rebel win -PRON- would have -PRON- money , but if the Company 
      conquer -PRON- jewel would be save to -PRON- . have thus divide -PRON- 
      hoard , -PRON- throw -PRON- into the cause of the Sepoys , since -PRON- be 
      strong upon -PRON- border . by do this , mark -PRON- , Sahib , -PRON- property 
      become the due of those who have be true to -PRON- salt . 

      " ' this pretend merchant , who travel under the name of Achmet , be 
      now in the city of Agra , and desire to gain -PRON- way into the fort . 
      -PRON- have with -PRON- as travel - companion -PRON- foster - brother Dost Akbar , 
      who know -PRON- secret . Dost Akbar have promise this night to lead -PRON- 
      to a side - postern of the fort , and have choose this one for -PRON- 
      purpose . here -PRON- will come presently , and here -PRON- will find Mahomet 
      Singh and -PRON- await -PRON- . the place be lonely , and none shall 
      know of -PRON- coming . the world shall know of the merchant Achmet no 
      more , but the great treasure of the rajah shall be divide among -PRON- . 
      what say -PRON- to -PRON- , Sahib ? ' 

      " in Worcestershire the life of a man seem a great and a sacred 
      thing ; but -PRON- be very different when there be fire and blood all 
      round -PRON- and -PRON- have be use to meet death at every turn . 
      whether Achmet the merchant live or die be a thing as light as air 
      to -PRON- , but at the talk about the treasure -PRON- heart turn to -PRON- , and 
      -PRON- think of what -PRON- may do in the old country with -PRON- , and how -PRON- 
      folk would stare when -PRON- see -PRON- ne'er - do - well come back with 
      -PRON- pocket full of gold moidore . -PRON- have , therefore , already make up 
      -PRON- mind . Abdullah Khan , however , think that -PRON- hesitate , press 
      the matter more closely . 

      " ' consider , Sahib , ' say -PRON- , ' that if this man be take by the 
      commandant -PRON- will be hang or shoot , and -PRON- jewel take by the 
      government , so that no man will be a rupee the well for -PRON- . now , 
      since -PRON- do the taking of -PRON- , why should -PRON- not do the rest as well ? 
      the jewel will be as well with -PRON- as in the company 's coffer . there 
      will be enough to make every one of -PRON- rich man and great chief . no 
      one can know about the matter , for here -PRON- be cut off from all man . 
      what could be well for the purpose ?   say again , then , Sahib , 
      whether -PRON- be with -PRON- , or if -PRON- must look upon -PRON- as an enemy . ' 

      " ' -PRON- be with -PRON- heart and soul , ' say I. 

      " ' -PRON- be well , ' -PRON- answer , hand -PRON- back -PRON- firelock . ' -PRON- see 
      that -PRON- trust -PRON- , for -PRON- word , like our , be not to be break . -PRON- 
      have now only to wait for -PRON- brother and the merchant . ' 

      " ' do -PRON- brother know , then , of what -PRON- will do ? ' -PRON- ask . 

      " ' the plan be -PRON- . -PRON- have devise -PRON- . -PRON- will go to the gate and 
      share the watch with Mahomet Singh . ' 

      " the rain be still fall steadily , for -PRON- be just the beginning 
      of the wet season . brown , heavy cloud be drift across the sky , 
      and -PRON- be hard to see more than a stone - cast . a deep moat lie in 
      front of -PRON- door , but the water be in place nearly dry up , and 
      -PRON- could easily be cross . -PRON- be strange to -PRON- to be stand there 
      with those two wild punjaubee wait for the man who be come to 
      -PRON- death . 

      " suddenly -PRON- eye catch the glint of a shaded lantern at the other 
      side of the moat . -PRON- vanish among the mound - heap , and then 
      appear again come slowly in -PRON- direction . 

      " ' here -PRON- be ! ' -PRON- exclaim . 

      " ' -PRON- will challenge -PRON- , Sahib , as usual , ' whisper Abdullah . ' give 
      -PRON- no cause for fear . send -PRON- in with -PRON- , and -PRON- shall do the rest 
      while -PRON- stay here on guard . have the lantern ready to uncover , that 
      -PRON- may be sure that -PRON- be indeed the man . ' 

      " the light have flicker onwards , now stop and now advance , 
      until -PRON- could see two dark figure upon the other side of the moat . -PRON- 
      let -PRON- scramble down the sloping bank , splash through the mire , and 
      climb half - way up to the gate , before -PRON- challenge -PRON- . 

      " ' who go there ? ' say -PRON- , in a subdued voice . 

      " ' friend , ' come the answer . -PRON- uncover -PRON- lantern and throw a flood 
      of light upon -PRON- . the first be an enormous Sikh , with a black 
      beard which sweep nearly down to -PRON- cummerbund . outside of a show -PRON- 
      have never see so tall a man . the other be a little , fat , round 
      fellow , with a great yellow turban , and a bundle in -PRON- hand , do up 
      in a shawl . -PRON- seem to be all in a quiver with fear , for -PRON- hand 
      twitch as if -PRON- have the ague , and -PRON- head keep turn to leave and 
      right with two bright little twinkling eye , like a mouse when -PRON- 
      venture out from -PRON- hole . -PRON- give -PRON- the chill to think of kill 
      -PRON- , but -PRON- think of the treasure , and -PRON- heart set as hard as a 
      flint within -PRON- . when -PRON- see -PRON- white face -PRON- give a little chirrup 
      of joy and come run up towards -PRON- . 

      " ' -PRON- protection , Sahib , ' -PRON- panted,--'your protection for the 
      unhappy merchant Achmet . -PRON- have travel across Rajpootana that -PRON- 
      may seek the shelter of the fort at Agra . -PRON- have be rob and 
      beat and abuse because -PRON- have be the friend of the Company . -PRON- 
      be a blessed night this when -PRON- be once more in safety,--I and -PRON- poor 
      possession . ' 

      " ' what have -PRON- in the bundle ? ' -PRON- ask . 

      " ' an iron box , ' -PRON- answer , ' which contain one or two little family 
      matter which be of no value to other , but which -PRON- should be sorry 
      to lose . yet -PRON- be not a beggar ; and -PRON- shall reward -PRON- , young Sahib , 
      and -PRON- governor also , if -PRON- will give -PRON- the shelter -PRON- ask . ' 

      " -PRON- could not trust -PRON- to speak longer with the man . the more -PRON- 
      look at -PRON- fat , frightened face , the hard do -PRON- seem that -PRON- 
      should slay -PRON- in cold blood . -PRON- be good to get -PRON- over . 

      " ' take -PRON- to the main guard , ' say I. the two Sikhs close in upon 
      -PRON- on each side , and the giant walk behind , while -PRON- march in 
      through the dark gate - way . never be a man so compass round with 
      death . -PRON- remain at the gate - way with the lantern . 

      " -PRON- could hear the measure tramp of -PRON- footstep sound through 
      the lonely corridor . suddenly -PRON- cease , and -PRON- hear voice , and a 
      scuffle , with the sound of blow . a moment later there come , to -PRON- 
      horror , a rush of footstep come in -PRON- direction , with the loud 
      breathing of a running man . -PRON- turn -PRON- lantern down the long , 
      straight passage , and there be the fat man , run like the wind , 
      with a smear of blood across -PRON- face , and close at -PRON- heel , 
      bound like a tiger , the great black - bearded Sikh , with a knife 
      flash in -PRON- hand . -PRON- have never see a man run so fast as that 
      little merchant . -PRON- be gain on the Sikh , and -PRON- could see that if 
      -PRON- once pass -PRON- and get to the open air -PRON- would save -PRON- yet . 
      -PRON- heart soften to -PRON- , but again the thought of -PRON- treasure 
      turn -PRON- hard and bitter . -PRON- cast -PRON- firelock between -PRON- leg as -PRON- 
      race past , and -PRON- roll twice over like a shot rabbit . Ere -PRON- could 
      stagger to -PRON- foot the Sikh be upon -PRON- , and bury -PRON- knife twice 
      in -PRON- side . the man never utter moan nor move muscle , but lay 
      be -PRON- have fall . -PRON- think -PRON- that -PRON- may have break -PRON- neck 
      with the fall . -PRON- see , gentleman , that -PRON- be keep -PRON- promise . -PRON- be 
      tell -PRON- every work of the business just exactly as -PRON- happen , 
      whether -PRON- be in -PRON- favor or not . " 

      -PRON- stop , and hold out -PRON- manacled hand for the whiskey - and - water 
      which Holmes have brew for -PRON- . for -PRON- , -PRON- confess that -PRON- have now 
      conceive the utmost horror of the man , not only for this 
      cold - blooded business in which -PRON- have be concern , but even more 
      for the somewhat flippant and careless way in which -PRON- narrate -PRON- . 
      whatever punishment be in store for -PRON- , -PRON- feel that -PRON- may expect 
      no sympathy from -PRON- . Sherlock Holmes and Jones sit with -PRON- hand 
      upon -PRON- knee , deeply interested in the story , but with the same 
      disgust write upon -PRON- face .   -PRON- may have observe -PRON- , for there 
      be a touch of defiance in -PRON- voice and manner as -PRON- proceed . 

      " -PRON- be all very bad , no doubt , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- should like to know how 
      many fellow in -PRON- shoe would have refuse a share of this loot when 
      -PRON- know that -PRON- would have -PRON- throat cut for -PRON- pain . 
      besides , -PRON- be -PRON- life or -PRON- when once -PRON- be in the fort . if -PRON- 
      have get out , the whole business would come to light , and -PRON- should 
      have be court - martialle and shoot as likely as not ; for people be 
      not very lenient at a time like that . " 

      " go on with -PRON- story , " say Holmes , shortly . 

      " well , -PRON- carry -PRON- in , Abdullah , Akbar , and I. a fine weight -PRON- 
      be , too , for all that -PRON- be so short . Mahomet Singh be leave to 
      guard the door . -PRON- take -PRON- to a place which the Sikhs have already 
      prepare . -PRON- be some distance off , where a wind passage lead to 
      a great empty hall , the brick wall of which be all crumble to 
      piece . the earth floor have sink in at one place , make a natural 
      grave , so -PRON- leave Achmet the merchant there , have first cover -PRON- 
      over with loose brick . this do , -PRON- all go back to the treasure . 

      " -PRON- lie where -PRON- have drop -PRON- when -PRON- be first attack . the box 
      be the same which now lie open upon -PRON- table . a key be hang by a 
      silken cord to that carve handle upon the top . -PRON- open -PRON- , and the 
      light of the lantern gleam upon a collection of gem such as -PRON- have 
      read of and think about when -PRON- be a little lad at Pershore . -PRON- be 
      blind to look upon -PRON- . when -PRON- have feast -PRON- eye -PRON- take -PRON- 
      all out and make a list of -PRON- . there be one hundred and 
      forty - three diamond of the first water , include one which have be 
      call , -PRON- believe , ' the Great Mogul ' and be say to be the second 
      large stone in existence . then there be ninety - seven very fine 
      emerald , and one hundred and seventy ruby , some of which , however , 
      be small . there be forty carbuncle , two hundred and ten 
      sapphire , sixty - one agate , and a great quantity of beryls , onyx , 
      cats'-eyes , turquoise , and other stone , the very name of which -PRON- 
      do not know at the time , though -PRON- have become more familiar with 
      -PRON- since . besides this , there be nearly three hundred very fine 
      pearl , twelve of which be set in a gold coronet . by the way , these 
      last have be take out of the chest and be not there when -PRON- 
      recover -PRON- . 

      " after -PRON- have count -PRON- treasure -PRON- put -PRON- back into the chest 
      and carry -PRON- to the gate - way to show -PRON- to Mahomet Singh . then 
      -PRON- solemnly renew -PRON- oath to stand by each other and be true to 
      -PRON- secret . -PRON- agree to conceal -PRON- loot in a safe place until the 
      country should be at peace again , and then to divide -PRON- equally among 
      -PRON- . there be no use divide -PRON- at present , for if gem of 
      such value be find upon -PRON- -PRON- would cause suspicion , and there be 
      no privacy in the fort nor any place where -PRON- could keep -PRON- . -PRON- 
      carry the box , therefore , into the same hall where -PRON- have bury 
      the body , and there , under certain brick in the best - preserve wall , 
      -PRON- make a hollow and put -PRON- treasure . -PRON- make careful note of the 
      place , and next day -PRON- draw four plan , one for each of -PRON- , and put 
      the sign of the four of -PRON- at the bottom , for -PRON- have swear that -PRON- 
      should each always act for all , so that none may take advantage . 
      that be an oath that -PRON- can put -PRON- hand to -PRON- heart and swear that -PRON- 
      have never break . 

      " well , there be no use -PRON- tell -PRON- gentleman what come of the 
      indian mutiny . after Wilson take Delhi and Sir Colin relieve Lucknow 
      the back of the business be break . fresh troop come pour in , 
      and Nana Sahib make -PRON- scarce over the frontier . a fly column 
      under Colonel Greathed come round to Agra and clear the Pandies 
      away from -PRON- . peace seem to be settle upon the country , and -PRON- 
      four be begin to hope that the time be at hand when -PRON- may 
      safely go off with -PRON- share of the plunder . in a moment , however , 
      -PRON- hope be shatter by -PRON- be arrest as the murderer of 
      Achmet . 

      " -PRON- come about in this way . when the rajah put -PRON- jewel into the 
      hand of Achmet -PRON- do -PRON- because -PRON- know that -PRON- be a trusty man . 
      -PRON- be suspicious folk in the East , however : so what do this 
      rajah do but take a second even more trusty servant and set -PRON- to 
      play the spy upon the first ? this second man be order never to let 
      achmet out of -PRON- sight , and -PRON- follow -PRON- like -PRON- shadow . -PRON- go 
      after -PRON- that night and see -PRON- pass through the doorway . of course 
      -PRON- think -PRON- have take refuge in the fort , and apply for admission 
      there -PRON- next day , but could find no trace of Achmet . this 
      seem to -PRON- so strange that -PRON- speak about -PRON- to a sergeant of 
      guide , who bring -PRON- to the ear of the commandant . a thorough 
      search be quickly make , and the body be discover . thus at the 
      very moment that -PRON- think that all be safe -PRON- be all four seized 
      and bring to trial on a charge of murder,--three of -PRON- because -PRON- 
      have hold the gate that night , and the fourth because -PRON- be know to 
      have be in the company of the murder man . not a word about the 
      jewel come out at the trial , for the rajah have be depose and 
      drive out of India : so no one have any particular interest in -PRON- . 
      the murder , however , be clearly make out , and -PRON- be certain that -PRON- 
      must all have be concern in -PRON- . the three Sikhs get penal 
      servitude for life , and -PRON- be condemn to death , though -PRON- sentence 
      be afterwards commute into the same as the other . 

      " -PRON- be rather a queer position that -PRON- find -PRON- in then . 
      there -PRON- be all four tie by the leg and with precious little 
      chance of ever get out again , while -PRON- each hold a secret which 
      may have put each of -PRON- in a palace if -PRON- could only have make use 
      of -PRON- . -PRON- be enough to make a man eat -PRON- heart out to have to stand 
      the kick and the cuff of every petty jack - in - office , to have rice to 
      eat and water to drink , when that gorgeous fortune be ready for -PRON- 
      outside , just wait to be pick up . -PRON- may have drive -PRON- mad ; 
      but -PRON- be always a pretty stubborn one , so -PRON- just hold on and bide 
      -PRON- time . 

      " at last -PRON- seem to -PRON- to have come . -PRON- be change from Agra to 
      Madras , and from there to Blair Island in the Andamans . there be 
      very few white convict at this settlement , and , as -PRON- have behave 
      well from the first , -PRON- soon find -PRON- a sort of privileged person . 
      -PRON- be give a hut in Hope Town , which be a small place on the slope 
      of Mount Harriet , and -PRON- be leave pretty much to -PRON- . -PRON- be a 
      dreary , fever - stricken place , and all beyond -PRON- little clearing be 
      infest with wild cannibal native , who be ready enough to blow a 
      poison dart at -PRON- if -PRON- see a chance . there be dig , and 
      ditch , and yam - planting , and a dozen other thing to be do , so 
      -PRON- be busy enough all day ; though in the evening -PRON- have a little 
      time to -PRON- . among other thing , -PRON- learn to dispense drug 
      for the surgeon , and pick up a smattering of -PRON- knowledge . all the 
      time -PRON- be on the lookout for a chance of escape ; but -PRON- be hundred 
      of mile from any other land , and there be little or no wind in those 
      sea : so -PRON- be a terribly difficult job to get away . 

      " the surgeon , Dr. Somerton , be a fast , sport young chap , and the 
      other young officer would meet in -PRON- room of an evening and play 
      card . the surgery , where -PRON- use to make up -PRON- drug , be next to -PRON- 
      sit - room , with a small window between -PRON- . often , if -PRON- feel 
      lonesome , -PRON- use to turn out the lamp in the surgery , and then , 
      stand there , -PRON- could hear -PRON- talk and watch -PRON- play . -PRON- be 
      fond of a hand at card -PRON- , and -PRON- be almost as good as have 
      one to watch the other . there be Major Sholto , Captain Morstan , and 
      Lieutenant Bromley Brown , who be in command of the native troop , 
      and there be the surgeon -PRON- , and two or three prison - official , 
      crafty old hand who play a nice sly safe game . a very snug little 
      party -PRON- use to make . 

      " well , there be one thing which very soon strike -PRON- , and that be 
      that the soldier use always to lose and the civilian to win . mind , 
      -PRON- do not say that there be anything unfair , but so -PRON- be . these 
      prison - chap have do little else than play card ever since -PRON- have 
      be at the Andamans , and -PRON- know each other 's game to a point , 
      while the other just play to pass the time and throw -PRON- card 
      down anyhow . night after night the soldier get up poor man , and 
      the poor -PRON- get the more keen -PRON- be to play . Major Sholto be 
      the hardest hit . -PRON- use to pay in note and gold at first , but soon 
      -PRON- come to note of hand and for big sum . -PRON- sometimes would win for 
      a few deal , just to give -PRON- heart , and then the luck would set in 
      against -PRON- worse than ever . all day -PRON- would wander about as black 
      as thunder , and -PRON- take to drink a deal more than be good for 
      -PRON- . 

      " one night -PRON- lose even more heavily than usual . -PRON- be sit in -PRON- 
      hut when -PRON- and Captain Morstan come stumble along on the way to 
      -PRON- quarter . -PRON- be bosom friend , those two , and never far 
      apart . the major be rave about -PRON- loss . 

      " ' -PRON- be all up , Morstan , ' -PRON- be say , as -PRON- pass -PRON- hut . ' -PRON- 
      shall have to send in -PRON- paper . -PRON- be a ruin man . ' 

      " ' nonsense , old chap ! ' say the other , slap -PRON- upon the 
      shoulder . ' -PRON- have have a nasty facer -PRON- , but-- ' that be all -PRON- could 
      hear , but -PRON- be enough to set -PRON- think . 

      a couple of day later Major Sholto be stroll on the beach : so -PRON- 
      take the chance of speak to -PRON- . 

      " ' -PRON- wish to have -PRON- advice , major , ' say I. 

      " ' well , small , what be -PRON- ? ' -PRON- ask , take -PRON- cheroot from -PRON- 
      lip . 

      " ' -PRON- want to ask -PRON- , sir , ' say -PRON- , ' who be the proper person to 
      whom hidden treasure should be hand over . -PRON- know where half a 
      million worth lie , and , as -PRON- can not use -PRON- -PRON- , -PRON- think perhaps 
      the good thing that -PRON- could do would be to hand -PRON- over to the proper 
      authority , and then perhaps -PRON- would get -PRON- sentence shorten 
      for -PRON- . ' 

      " ' half a million , small ? ' -PRON- gasp , look hard at -PRON- to see if -PRON- 
      be in earnest . 

      " ' quite that , sir,--in jewel and pearl . -PRON- lie there ready for 
      anyone . and the queer thing about -PRON- be that the real owner be 
      outlaw and can not hold property , so that -PRON- belong to the first 
      comer . ' 

      " ' to government , Small , ' -PRON- stammered,--'to government . ' but -PRON- say 
      -PRON- in a halting fashion , and -PRON- know in -PRON- heart that -PRON- have get -PRON- . 

      " ' -PRON- think , then , sir , that -PRON- should give the information to the 
      Governor - General ? ' say -PRON- , quietly . 

      " ' well , well , -PRON- must not do anything rash , or that -PRON- may 
      repent . let -PRON- hear all about -PRON- , Small . give -PRON- the fact . ' 

      " -PRON- tell -PRON- the whole story , with small change so that -PRON- could not 
      identify the place . when -PRON- have finish -PRON- stand stock still and 
      full of thought . -PRON- could see by the twitch of -PRON- lip that there be 
      a struggle go on within -PRON- . 

      " ' this be a very important matter , Small , ' -PRON- say , at last . ' -PRON- 
      must not say a word to any one about -PRON- , and -PRON- shall see -PRON- again 
      soon . ' 

      " two night later -PRON- and -PRON- friend Captain Morstan come to -PRON- hut in 
      the dead of the night with a lantern . 

      " ' -PRON- want -PRON- just to let Captain Morstan hear that story from -PRON- 
      own lip , Small , ' say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- repeat -PRON- as -PRON- have tell -PRON- before . 

      " ' -PRON- ring true , eh ? ' say -PRON- . ' -PRON- be good enough to act upon ? ' 

      " Captain Morstan nod . 

      " ' look here , Small , ' say the major . ' -PRON- have be talk -PRON- over , 
      -PRON- friend here and -PRON- , and -PRON- have come to the conclusion that this 
      secret of -PRON- be hardly a government matter , after all , but be a 
      private concern of -PRON- own , which of course -PRON- have the power of 
      dispose of as -PRON- think best . now , the question be , what price 
      would -PRON- ask for -PRON- ? -PRON- may be incline to take -PRON- up , and at 
      least look into -PRON- , if -PRON- could agree as to term . ' -PRON- try to speak 
      in a cool , careless way , but -PRON- eye be shine with excitement 
      and greed . 

      " ' why , as to that , gentleman , ' -PRON- answer , try also to be cool , 
      but feel as excited as -PRON- do , ' there be only one bargain which a 
      man in -PRON- position can make . -PRON- shall want -PRON- to help -PRON- to -PRON- 
      freedom , and to help -PRON- three companion to -PRON- .   -PRON- shall then 
      take yo into partnership , and give -PRON- a fifth share to divide 
      between -PRON- . ' 

      " ' hum ! ' say -PRON- . ' a fifth share ! that be not very tempting . ' 

      " ' -PRON- would come to fifty thousand apiece , ' say I. 

      " ' but how can -PRON- gain -PRON- freedom ? -PRON- know very well that -PRON- ask 
      an impossibility . ' 

      " ' nothing of the sort , ' -PRON- answer . ' -PRON- have think -PRON- all out to the 
      last detail . the only bar to -PRON- escape be that -PRON- can get no boat 
      fit for the voyage , and no provision to last -PRON- for so long a time . 
      there be plenty of little yacht and yawl at Calcutta or Madras 
      which would serve -PRON- turn well . do -PRON- bring one over . -PRON- shall 
      engage to get aboard -PRON- by night , and if -PRON- will drop -PRON- on any 
      part of the indian coast -PRON- will have do -PRON- part of the 
      bargain . ' 

      " ' if there be only one , ' -PRON- say . 

      " ' none or all , ' -PRON- answer . ' -PRON- have swear -PRON- . the four of -PRON- must 
      always act together . ' 

      " ' -PRON- see , Morstan , ' say -PRON- , ' Small be a man of -PRON- word . -PRON- do 
      not flinch from -PRON- friend . -PRON- think -PRON- may very well trust -PRON- . ' 

      " ' -PRON- be a dirty business , ' the other answer . ' yet , as -PRON- say , the 
      money would save -PRON- commission handsomely . ' 

      " ' well , Small , ' say the major , ' -PRON- must , -PRON- suppose , try and meet 
      -PRON- . -PRON- must first , of course , test the truth of -PRON- story . tell -PRON- 
      where the box be hide , and -PRON- shall get leave of absence and go back to 
      India in the monthly relief - boat to inquire into the affair . ' 

      " ' not so fast , ' say -PRON- , grow colder as -PRON- get hot . ' -PRON- must have 
      the consent of -PRON- three comrade . -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be four or none 
      with -PRON- . ' 

      " ' nonsense ! ' -PRON- break in . ' what have three black fellow to do with 
      -PRON- agreement ? ' 

      " ' black or blue , ' say -PRON- , ' -PRON- be in with -PRON- , and -PRON- all go 
      together . ' 

      " well , the matter end by a second meeting , at which Mahomet Singh , 
      Abdullah Khan , and Dost Akbar be all present . -PRON- talk the matter 
      over again , and at last -PRON- come to an arrangement . -PRON- be to provide 
      both the officer with chart of the part of the Agra fort and mark 
      the place in the wall where the treasure be hide . Major Sholto be to 
      go to India to test -PRON- story . if -PRON- find the box -PRON- be to leave -PRON- 
      there , to send out a small yacht provision for a voyage , which be 
      to lie off Rutland Island , and to which -PRON- be to make -PRON- way , and 
      finally to return to -PRON- duty . Captain Morstan be then to apply 
      for leave of absence , to meet -PRON- at Agra , and there -PRON- be to have a 
      final division of the treasure , -PRON- take the major 's share as well 
      as -PRON- own . all this -PRON- seal by the most solemn oath that the mind 
      could think or the lip utter . -PRON- sit up all night with paper and ink , 
      and by the morning -PRON- have the two chart all ready , sign with the 
      sign of four,--that be , of Abdullah , Akbar , Mahomet , and -PRON- . 

      " well , gentleman , -PRON- weary -PRON- with -PRON- long story , and -PRON- know that -PRON- 
      friend Mr. Jones be impatient to get -PRON- safely stow in chokey . -PRON- will 
      make -PRON- as short as -PRON- can . the villain Sholto go off to India , but 
      -PRON- never come back again . Captain Morstan show -PRON- -PRON- name among a 
      list of passenger in one of the mail - boat very shortly afterwards . 
      -PRON- uncle have die , leave -PRON- a fortune , and -PRON- have leave the army , 
      yet -PRON- could stoop to treat five man as -PRON- have treat -PRON- . Morstan 
      go over to Agra shortly afterwards , and find , as -PRON- expect , that 
      the treasure be indeed go . the scoundrel have steal -PRON- all , 
      without carry out one of the condition on which -PRON- have sell -PRON- 
      the secret . from that day -PRON- live only for vengeance . -PRON- think of -PRON- 
      by day and -PRON- nurse -PRON- by night . -PRON- become an overpowering , absorb 
      passion with -PRON- . -PRON- care nothing for the law,--nothing for the 
      gallow . to escape , to track down Sholto , to have -PRON- hand upon -PRON- 
      throat,--that be -PRON- one thought . even the Agra treasure have come to 
      be a small thing in -PRON- mind than the slaying of Sholto . 

      " well , -PRON- have set -PRON- mind on many thing in this life , and never one 
      which -PRON- do not carry out . but -PRON- be weary year before -PRON- time 
      come . -PRON- have tell -PRON- that -PRON- have pick up something of medicine . one 
      day when Dr. Somerton be down with a fever a little Andaman Islander 
      be pick up by a convict - gang in the wood . -PRON- be sick to death , 
      and have go to a lonely place to die . -PRON- take -PRON- in hand , though -PRON- 
      be as venomous as a young snake , and after a couple of month -PRON- get 
      -PRON- all right and able to walk . -PRON- take a kind of fancy to -PRON- then , 
      and would hardly go back to -PRON- wood , but be always hang about 
      -PRON- hut . -PRON- learn a little of -PRON- lingo from -PRON- , and this make -PRON- 
      all the fonder of -PRON- . 

      " Tonga -- for that be -PRON- name -- be a fine boatman , and own a big , 
      roomy canoe of -PRON- own . when -PRON- find that -PRON- be devoted to -PRON- and 
      would do anything to serve -PRON- , -PRON- see -PRON- chance of escape . -PRON- talk -PRON- 
      over with -PRON- . -PRON- be to bring -PRON- boat round on a certain night to 
      an old wharf which be never guard , and there -PRON- be to pick -PRON- up . 
      -PRON- give -PRON- direction to have several gourd of water and a lot of 
      yam , cocoa - nut , and sweet potato . 

      " -PRON- be stanch and true , be little Tonga . no man ever have a more 
      faithful mate . at the night name -PRON- have -PRON- boat at the wharf . as -PRON- 
      chance , however , there be one of the convict - guard down there,--a 
      vile Pathan who have never miss a chance of insult and injure 
      -PRON- . -PRON- have always vow vengeance , and now -PRON- have -PRON- chance . -PRON- be as 
      if fate have place -PRON- in -PRON- way that -PRON- may pay -PRON- debt before -PRON- 
      leave the island . -PRON- stand on the bank with -PRON- back to -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      carbine on -PRON- shoulder . -PRON- look about for a stone to beat out -PRON- 
      brain with , but none could -PRON- see . 

      " then a queer thought come into -PRON- head and show -PRON- where -PRON- could 
      lay -PRON- hand on a weapon . -PRON- sit down in the darkness and unstrapped -PRON- 
      wooden leg . with three long hop -PRON- be on -PRON- . -PRON- put -PRON- carbine to 
      -PRON- shoulder , but -PRON- strike -PRON- full , and knock the whole front of 
      -PRON- skull in . -PRON- can see the split in the wood now where -PRON- hit -PRON- . 
      -PRON- both go down together , for -PRON- could not keep -PRON- balance , but when 
      -PRON- get up -PRON- find -PRON- still lie quiet enough . -PRON- make for the boat , 
      and in an hour -PRON- be well out at sea . Tonga have bring all -PRON- 
      earthly possession with -PRON- , -PRON- arm and -PRON- god . among other 
      thing , -PRON- have a long bamboo spear , and some andaman cocoa - nut 
      matting , with which -PRON- make a sort of sail . for ten day -PRON- be 
      beat about , trust to luck , and on the eleventh -PRON- be pick 
      up by a trader which be go from Singapore to Jiddah with a cargo 
      of malay pilgrim . -PRON- be a rum crowd , and Tonga and -PRON- soon 
      manage to settle down among -PRON- . -PRON- have one very good quality : 
      -PRON- let -PRON- alone and ask no question . 

      " well , if -PRON- be to tell -PRON- all the adventure that -PRON- little chum 
      and -PRON- go through , -PRON- would not thank -PRON- , for -PRON- would have -PRON- here 
      until the sun be shine . here and there -PRON- drift about the world , 
      something always turn up to keep -PRON- from London . all the time , 
      however , -PRON- never lose sight of -PRON- purpose . -PRON- would dream of Sholto at 
      night . a hundred time -PRON- have kill -PRON- in -PRON- sleep . at last , 
      however , some three or four year ago , -PRON- find -PRON- in England . 
      -PRON- have no great difficulty in find where Sholto live , and -PRON- set to 
      work to discover whether -PRON- have realize the treasure , or if -PRON- still 
      have -PRON- . -PRON- make friend with someone who could help me,--i name no 
      name , for -PRON- do not want to get any one else in a hole,--and -PRON- soon 
      find that -PRON- still have the jewel . then -PRON- try to get at -PRON- in 
      many way ; but -PRON- be pretty sly , and have always two prize - fighter , 
      besides -PRON- son and -PRON- khitmutgar , on guard over -PRON- . 

      " one day , however , -PRON- get word that -PRON- be die . -PRON- hurry at once to 
      the garden , mad that -PRON- should slip out of -PRON- clutch like that , 
      and , look through the window , -PRON- see -PRON- lie in -PRON- bed , with -PRON- 
      son on each side of -PRON- . -PRON- would have come through and take -PRON- chance 
      with the three of -PRON- , only even as -PRON- look at -PRON- -PRON- jaw drop , 
      and -PRON- know that -PRON- be go . -PRON- get into -PRON- room that same night , 
      though , and -PRON- search -PRON- paper to see if there be any record of 
      where -PRON- have hide -PRON- jewel . there be not a line , however : so -PRON- 
      come away , bitter and savage as a man could be . before -PRON- leave -PRON- 
      bethought -PRON- that if -PRON- ever meet -PRON- Sikh friend again -PRON- would be a 
      satisfaction to know that -PRON- have leave some mark of -PRON- hatred : so -PRON- 
      scrawl down the sign of the four of -PRON- , as -PRON- have be on the 
      chart , and -PRON- pin -PRON- on -PRON- bosom . -PRON- be too much that -PRON- should 
      be take to the grave without some token from the man whom -PRON- have 
      rob and befool . 

      " -PRON- earn a living at this time by -PRON- exhibit poor Tonga at fair 
      and other such place as the black cannibal . -PRON- would eat raw meat 
      and dance -PRON- war - dance : so -PRON- always have a hatful of penny after a 
      day 's work . -PRON- still hear all the news from Pondicherry Lodge , and 
      for some year there be no news to hear , except that -PRON- be 
      hunt for the treasure . at last , however , come what -PRON- have wait 
      for so long . the treasure have be find . -PRON- be up at the top of the 
      house , in Mr. Bartholomew Sholto 's chemical laboratory . -PRON- come at 
      once and have a look at the place , but -PRON- could not see how with -PRON- 
      wooden leg -PRON- be to make -PRON- way up to -PRON- . -PRON- learn , however , about a 
      trap - door in the roof , and also about Mr. Sholto 's supper - hour . -PRON- 
      seem to -PRON- that -PRON- could manage the thing easily through Tonga . -PRON- 
      bring -PRON- out with -PRON- with a long rope wind round -PRON- waist . -PRON- 
      could climb like a cat , and -PRON- soon make -PRON- way through the roof , 
      but , as ill luck would have -PRON- , Bartholomew Sholto be still in the 
      room , to -PRON- cost . Tonga think -PRON- have do something very clever in 
      kill -PRON- , for when -PRON- come up by the rope -PRON- find -PRON- strut 
      about as proud as a peacock . very much surprised be -PRON- when -PRON- make 
      at -PRON- with the rope 's end and curse -PRON- for a little blood - thirsty 
      imp . -PRON- take the treasure - box and let -PRON- down , and then slide down 
      -PRON- , have first leave the sign of the four upon the table , to 
      show that the jewel have come back at last to those who have most 
      right to -PRON- . Tonga then pull up the rope , close the window , and 
      make off the way that -PRON- have come . 

      " -PRON- do not know that -PRON- have anything else to tell -PRON- . -PRON- have hear a 
      waterman speak of the speed of Smith 's launch , the Aurora , so -PRON- 
      think -PRON- would be a handy craft for -PRON- escape . -PRON- engage with old 
      Smith , and be to give -PRON- a big sum if -PRON- get -PRON- safe to -PRON- ship . 
      -PRON- know , no doubt , that there be some screw loose , but -PRON- be not in 
      -PRON- secret . all this be the truth , and if -PRON- tell -PRON- to -PRON- , 
      gentleman , -PRON- be not to amuse you,--for -PRON- have not do -PRON- a very 
      good turn,--but -PRON- be because -PRON- believe the good defence -PRON- can make 
      be just to hold back nothing , but let all the world know how badly -PRON- 
      have -PRON- be serve by Major Sholto , and how innocent -PRON- be of the 
      death of -PRON- son . " 

      " a very remarkable account , " say Sherlock Holmes . " a fitting wind - up 
      to an extremely interesting case . there be nothing at all new to -PRON- 
      in the latter part of -PRON- narrative , except that -PRON- bring -PRON- 
      own rope . that -PRON- do not know . by the way , -PRON- have hope that Tonga have 
      lose all -PRON- dart ; yet -PRON- manage to shoot one at -PRON- in the boat . " 

      " -PRON- have lose -PRON- all , sir , except the one which be in -PRON- blow - pipe 
      at the time . " 

      " ah , of course , " say Holmes . " -PRON- have not think of that . " 

      " be there any other point which -PRON- would like to ask about ? " ask 
      the convict , affably . 

      " -PRON- think not , thank -PRON- , " -PRON- companion answer . 

      " well , Holmes , " say Athelney Jones , " -PRON- be a man to be humor , 
      and -PRON- all know that -PRON- be a connoisseur of crime , but duty be 
      duty , and -PRON- have go rather far in do what -PRON- and -PRON- friend 
      ask -PRON- . -PRON- shall feel more at ease when -PRON- have -PRON- story - teller 
      here safe under lock and key . the cab still wait , and there be two 
      inspector down - stair . -PRON- be much oblige to -PRON- both for -PRON- 
      assistance . of course -PRON- will be want at the trial . good - night to 
      -PRON- . " 

      " good - night , gentleman both , " say Jonathan Small . 

      " -PRON- first , small , " remark the wary Jones as -PRON- leave the room . 
      " -PRON- will take particular care that -PRON- do not club -PRON- with -PRON- wooden 
      leg , whatever -PRON- may have do to the gentleman at the Andaman 
      Isles . " 

      " well , and there be the end of -PRON- little drama , " -PRON- remark , after 
      -PRON- have set some time smoke in silence . " -PRON- fear that -PRON- may be the 
      last investigation in which -PRON- shall have the chance of study -PRON- 
      method . Miss Morstan have do -PRON- the honor to accept -PRON- as a husband 
      in prospective . " 

      -PRON- give a most dismal groan . " -PRON- fear as much , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- really 
      can not congratulate -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- be a little hurt . " have -PRON- any reason to be dissatisfy with -PRON- 
      choice ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " not at all . -PRON- think -PRON- be one of the most charming young lady -PRON- 
      ever meet , and may have be most useful in such work as -PRON- have 
      be do . -PRON- have a decide genius that way : witness the way in 
      which -PRON- preserve that Agra plan from all the other paper of -PRON- 
      father . but love be an emotional thing , and whatever be emotional be 
      oppose to that true cold reason which -PRON- place above all thing . -PRON- 
      should never marry -PRON- , lest -PRON- bias -PRON- judgment . " 

      " -PRON- trust , " say -PRON- , laugh , " that -PRON- judgment may survive the 
      ordeal . but -PRON- look weary . " 

      " yes , the reaction be already upon -PRON- . -PRON- shall be as limp as a rag 
      for a week . " 

      " strange , " say -PRON- , " how term of what in another man -PRON- should call 
      laziness alternate with -PRON- fit of splendid energy and vigor . " 

      " yes , " -PRON- answer , " there be in -PRON- the making of a very fine 
      loafer and also of a pretty spry sort of fellow . -PRON- often think of 
      those line of old Goethe,-- 

               Schade , daß die Natur nur einen Mensch aus Dir schuf , 
              Denn zum würdigen Mann war und zum Schelmen der Stoff . 

      " by the way , a propos of this Norwood business , -PRON- see that -PRON- 
      have , as -PRON- surmise , a confederate in the house , who could be none 
      other than Lal Rao , the butler : so Jones actually have the undivided 
      honor of have catch one fish in -PRON- great haul . " 

      " the division seem rather unfair , " -PRON- remark . " -PRON- have do all 
      the work in this business . -PRON- get a wife out of -PRON- , Jones get the 
      credit , pray what remain for -PRON- ? " 

      " for -PRON- , " say Sherlock Holmes , " there still remain the 
      cocaine - bottle . " and -PRON- stretch -PRON- long white hand up for -PRON- . 









      ---------- 
      this text be provide to -PRON- " as - be " without any warranty . no 
      warranty of any kind , express or imply , be make to -PRON- as to 
      the text or any medium -PRON- may be on , include but not limited to 
      warranty of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose . 

      this text be format from various free ASCII and HTML variant . 
      see http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and 
      additional information about -PRON- . 

      this text come from the collection 's version 3.1 . 






 