



                                the valley of FEAR 

                                Arthur Conan Doyle 







                                 table of content 

          Part -PRON- 
         the Warning 
         Sherlock Holmes Discourses 
         the Tragedy of Birlstone 
         Darkness 
         the People of the Drama 
         a dawn light 
         the Solution 

          part II 
         the Man 
         the Bodymaster 
         Lodge 341 , Vermissa 
         the Valley of Fear 
         the Darkest Hour 
         Danger 
         the Trapping of Birdy Edwards 
         Epilogue 



















                                       PART -PRON- 

                             the Tragedy of Birlstone 





           CHAPTER -PRON- 
           the Warning 


      " -PRON- be incline to think-- " say I. 

      " -PRON- should do so , " Sherlock Holmes remark impatiently . 

      -PRON- believe that -PRON- be one of the most long - suffering of mortal ; but 
      -PRON- will admit that -PRON- be annoy at the sardonic interruption . 

      " really , Holmes , " say -PRON- severely , " -PRON- be a little try at 
      time . " 

      -PRON- be too much absorb with -PRON- own thought to give any immediate 
      answer to -PRON- remonstrance . -PRON- lean upon -PRON- hand , with -PRON- untasted 
      breakfast before -PRON- , and -PRON- stare at the slip of paper which -PRON- have 
      just draw from -PRON- envelope . then -PRON- take the envelope -PRON- , hold 
      -PRON- up to the light , and very carefully study both the exterior and 
      the flap . 

      " -PRON- be Porlock 's writing , " say -PRON- thoughtfully . " -PRON- can hardly doubt 
      that -PRON- be Porlock 's writing , though -PRON- have see -PRON- only twice 
      before . the Greek e with the peculiar top flourish be distinctive . 
      but if -PRON- be Porlock , then -PRON- must be something of the very first 
      importance . " 

      -PRON- be speak to -PRON- rather than to -PRON- ; but -PRON- vexation 
      disappear in the interest which the word awaken . 

      " who then be Porlock ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " Porlock , Watson , be a nom - de - plume , a mere identification mark ; but 
      behind -PRON- lie a shifty and evasive personality . in a former letter 
      -PRON- frankly inform -PRON- that the name be not -PRON- own , and defy -PRON- 
      ever to trace -PRON- among the teem million of this great city . 
      Porlock be important , not for -PRON- , but for the great man with 
      whom -PRON- be in touch . picture to -PRON- the pilot fish with the 
      shark , the jackal with the lion -- anything that be insignificant in 
      companionship with what be formidable : not only formidable , Watson , 
      but sinister -- in the high degree sinister . that be where -PRON- come 
      within -PRON- purview . -PRON- have hear -PRON- speak of Professor Moriarty ? " 

      " the famous scientific criminal , as famous among crook as-- " 

      " -PRON- blush , Watson ! " Holmes murmur in a deprecate voice . 

      " -PRON- be about to say , as -PRON- be unknown to the public . " 

      " a touch ! a distinct touch ! " cry Holmes . " -PRON- be develop a 
      certain unexpected vein of pawky humour , Watson , against which -PRON- must 
      learn to guard -PRON- . but in call Moriarty a criminal -PRON- be 
      utter libel in the eye of the law -- and there lie the glory and 
      the wonder of -PRON- ! the great schemer of all time , the organizer of 
      every deviltry , the control brain of the underworld , a brain 
      which may have make or mar the destiny of nation -- that be the 
      man ! but so aloof be -PRON- from general suspicion , so immune from 
      criticism , so admirable in -PRON- management and self - effacement , that 
      for those very word that -PRON- have utter -PRON- could hale -PRON- to a 
      court and emerge with -PRON- year 's pension as a solatium for -PRON- 
      wound character . be -PRON- not the celebrated author of the Dynamics of 
      an Asteroid , a book which ascend to such rarefy height of pure 
      mathematic that -PRON- be say that there be no man in the scientific 
      press capable of criticize -PRON- ? be this a man to traduce ? 
      foul - mouthed doctor and slandered professor -- such would be -PRON- 
      respective role ! that be genius , Watson . but if -PRON- be spare by less 
      man , -PRON- day will surely come . " 

      " May -PRON- be there to see ! " -PRON- exclaim devoutly . " but -PRON- be speak 
      of this man Porlock . " 

      " ah , yes -- the so - call Porlock be a link in the chain some little 
      way from -PRON- great attachment . Porlock be not quite a sound 
      link -- between -PRON- . -PRON- be the only flaw in that chain so far as 
      -PRON- have be able to test -PRON- . " 

      " but no chain be strong than -PRON- weak link . " 

      " exactly , -PRON- dear Watson ! hence the extreme importance of Porlock . 
      lead on by some rudimentary aspiration towards right , and encourage 
      by the judicious stimulation of an occasional ten - pound note send to 
      -PRON- by devious method , -PRON- have once or twice give -PRON- advance 
      information which have be of value -- that high value which 
      anticipate and prevent rather than avenge crime . -PRON- can not doubt 
      that , if -PRON- have the cipher , -PRON- should find that this communication be 
      of the nature that -PRON- indicate . " 

      again Holmes flatten out the paper upon -PRON- unused plate . -PRON- rise 
      and , lean over -PRON- , stare down at the curious inscription , which 
      run as follow : 

                          534 C2 13 127 36 31 4 17 21 41 
                          DOUGLAS 109 293 5 37 BIRLSTONE 
                               26 BIRLSTONE 9 47 171 

      " what do -PRON- make of -PRON- , Holmes ? " 

      " -PRON- be obviously an attempt to convey secret information . " 

      " but what be the use of a cipher message without the cipher ? " 

      " in this instance , none at all . " 

      " why do -PRON- say ' in this instance ' ? " 

      " because there be many cipher which -PRON- would read as easily as -PRON- do 
      the apocrypha of the agony column : such crude device amuse the 
      intelligence without fatigue -PRON- . but this be different . -PRON- be 
      clearly a reference to the word in a page of some book . until -PRON- be 
      tell which page and which book -PRON- be powerless . " 

      " but why ' Douglas ' and ' Birlstone ' ? " 

      " clearly because those be word which be not contain in the page 
      in question . " 

      " then why have -PRON- not indicate the book ? " 

      " -PRON- native shrewdness , -PRON- dear Watson , that innate cunning which be 
      the delight of -PRON- friend , would surely prevent -PRON- from inclose 
      cipher and message in the same envelope . Should -PRON- miscarry , -PRON- be 
      undone . as -PRON- be , both have to go wrong before any harm come from 
      -PRON- . -PRON- second post be now overdue , and -PRON- shall be surprised if -PRON- 
      do not bring -PRON- either a further letter of explanation , or , as be 
      more probable , the very volume to which these figure refer . " 

      Holmes 's calculation be fulfil within a very few minute by the 
      appearance of Billy , the page , with the very letter which -PRON- be 
      expect . 

      " the same writing , " remark Holmes , as -PRON- open the envelope , " and 
      actually sign , " -PRON- add in an exultant voice as -PRON- unfold the 
      epistle . " come , -PRON- be get on , Watson . " -PRON- brow cloud , 
      however , as -PRON- glance over the content . 

      " dear -PRON- , this be very disappointing ! -PRON- fear , Watson , that all -PRON- 
      expectation come to nothing . -PRON- trust that the man Porlock will come 
      to no harm . 

      " dear Mr. Holmes [ -PRON- say ] : 
      " -PRON- will go no further in this matter . -PRON- be too dangerous -- -PRON- 
      suspect -PRON- . -PRON- can see that -PRON- suspect -PRON- . -PRON- come to -PRON- quite 
      unexpectedly after -PRON- have actually address this envelope with the 
      intention of send -PRON- the key to the cipher . -PRON- be able to cover 
      -PRON- up . if -PRON- have see -PRON- , -PRON- would have go hard with -PRON- . but -PRON- read 
      suspicion in -PRON- eye . please burn the cipher message , which can now 
      be of no use to -PRON- . 
      " Fred Porlock . " 

      Holmes sit for some little time twist this letter between -PRON- 
      finger , and frown , as -PRON- stare into the fire . 

      " after all , " -PRON- say at last , " there may be nothing in -PRON- . -PRON- may be 
      only -PRON- guilty conscience . know -PRON- to be a traitor , -PRON- may 
      have read the accusation in the other 's eye . " 

      " the other being , -PRON- presume , Professor Moriarty . " 

      " no less ! when any of that party talk about ' -PRON- ' -PRON- know whom -PRON- 
      mean . there be one predominant ' -PRON- ' for all of -PRON- . " 

      " but what can -PRON- do ? " 

      " Hum ! that be a large question . when -PRON- have one of the first brain 
      of Europe up against -PRON- , and all the power of darkness at -PRON- back , 
      there be infinite possibility . anyhow , Friend Porlock be evidently 
      scare out of -PRON- sense -- kindly compare the writing in the note to 
      that upon -PRON- envelope ; which be do , -PRON- tell -PRON- , before this 
      ill - omen visit . the one be clear and firm . the other hardly 
      legible . " 

      " why do -PRON- write at all ? why do -PRON- not simply drop -PRON- ? " 

      " because -PRON- fear -PRON- would make some inquiry after -PRON- in that case , 
      and possibly bring trouble on -PRON- . " 

      " no doubt , " say I. " of course . " -PRON- have pick up the original cipher 
      message and be bend -PRON- brow over -PRON- . " -PRON- be pretty maddening to 
      think that an important secret may lie here on this slip of paper , 
      and that -PRON- be beyond human power to penetrate -PRON- . " 

      Sherlock Holmes have push away -PRON- untasted breakfast and light the 
      unsavoury pipe which be the companion of -PRON- deep meditation . " -PRON- 
      wonder ! " say -PRON- , lean back and stare at the ceiling . " perhaps 
      there be point which have escape -PRON- machiavellian intellect . let 
      -PRON- consider the problem in the light of pure reason . this man 's 
      reference be to a book . that be -PRON- point of departure . " 

      " a somewhat vague one . " 

      " let -PRON- see then if -PRON- can narrow -PRON- down . as -PRON- focus -PRON- mind upon 
      -PRON- , -PRON- seem rather less impenetrable . what indication have -PRON- as to 
      this book ? " 

      " none . " 

      " well , well , -PRON- be surely not quite so bad as that . the cipher 
      message begin with a large 534 , do -PRON- not ? -PRON- may take -PRON- as a 
      work hypothesis that 534 be the particular page to which the 
      cipher refer . so -PRON- book have already become a large book which be 
      surely something gain . what other indication have -PRON- as to the 
      nature of this large book ? the next sign be c2 . what do -PRON- make of 
      that , Watson ? " 

      " chapter the second , no doubt . " 

      " hardly that , Watson . -PRON- will , -PRON- be sure , agree with -PRON- that if the 
      page be give , the number of the chapter be immaterial . also that if 
      page 534 find -PRON- only in the second chapter , the length of the first 
      one must have be really intolerable . " 

      " Column ! " -PRON- cry . 

      " Brilliant , Watson . -PRON- be scintillate this morning . if -PRON- be not 
      column , then -PRON- be very much deceive . so now , -PRON- see , -PRON- begin to 
      visualize a large book print in double column which be each of a 
      considerable length , since one of the word be number in the 
      document as the two hundred and ninety - third . have -PRON- reach the 
      limit of what reason can supply ? " 

      " -PRON- fear that -PRON- have . " 

      " surely -PRON- do -PRON- an injustice . one more coruscation , -PRON- dear 
      Watson -- yet another brain - wave ! have the volume be an unusual one , 
      -PRON- would have send -PRON- to -PRON- . instead of that , -PRON- have intend , before 
      -PRON- plan be nip , to send -PRON- the clue in this envelope . -PRON- say 
      so in -PRON- note . this would seem to indicate that the book be one 
      which -PRON- think -PRON- would have no difficulty in find for -PRON- . -PRON- 
      have -PRON- -- and -PRON- imagine that -PRON- would have -PRON- , too . in short , Watson , 
      -PRON- be a very common book . " 

      " what -PRON- say certainly sound plausible . " 

      " so -PRON- have contract -PRON- field of search to a large book , print 
      in double column and in common use . " 

      " the Bible ! " -PRON- cry triumphantly . 

      " Good , Watson , good ! but not , if -PRON- may say so , quite good enough ! 
      even if -PRON- accept the compliment for -PRON- -PRON- could hardly name any 
      volume which would be less likely to lie at the elbow of one of 
      Moriarty 's associate . besides , the edition of Holy Writ be so 
      numerous that -PRON- could hardly suppose that two copy would have the 
      same pagination . this be clearly a book which be standardize . -PRON- 
      know for certain that -PRON- page 534 will exactly agree with -PRON- page 
      534 . " 

      " but very few book would correspond with that . " 

      " exactly . therein lie -PRON- salvation . -PRON- search be narrow down to 
      standardized book which anyone may be suppose to possess . " 

      " Bradshaw ! " 

      " there be difficulty , Watson . the vocabulary of Bradshaw be 
      nervous and terse , but limit . the selection of word would hardly 
      lend -PRON- to the sending of general message . -PRON- will eliminate 
      Bradshaw . the dictionary be , -PRON- fear , inadmissible for the same 
      reason . what then be leave ? " 

      " an almanac ! " 

      " Excellent , Watson ! -PRON- be very much mistake if -PRON- have not touch 
      the spot . an almanac ! let -PRON- consider the claim of Whitaker 's 
      Almanac . -PRON- be in common use . -PRON- have the requisite number of page . 
      -PRON- be in double column . though reserve in -PRON- early vocabulary , -PRON- 
      become , if -PRON- remember right , quite garrulous towards the end . " -PRON- 
      pick the volume from -PRON- desk . " here be page 534 , column two , a 
      substantial block of print dealing , -PRON- perceive , with the trade and 
      resource of british India . Jot down the word , Watson ! number 
      thirteen be ' Mahratta . ' not , -PRON- fear , a very auspicious beginning . 
      number one hundred and twenty - seven be ' Government ' ; which at least 
      make sense , though somewhat irrelevant to -PRON- and Professor 
      Moriarty . now let -PRON- try again . what do the Mahratta government do ? 
      alas ! the next word be ' pig' - bristle . ' -PRON- be undone , -PRON- good 
      Watson ! -PRON- be finish ! " 

      -PRON- have speak in jest vein , but the twitching of -PRON- bushy 
      eyebrow bespeak -PRON- disappointment and irritation . -PRON- sit helpless 
      and unhappy , stare into the fire . a long silence be break by a 
      sudden exclamation from Holmes , who dash at a cupboard , from which 
      -PRON- emerge with a second yellow - cover volume in -PRON- hand . 

      " -PRON- pay the price , Watson , for be too up - to - date ! " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- 
      be before -PRON- time , and suffer the usual penalty . be the 
      seventh of January , -PRON- have very properly lay in the new almanac . -PRON- 
      be more than likely that Porlock take -PRON- message from the old one . 
      no doubt -PRON- would have tell -PRON- so have -PRON- letter of explanation be 
      write . now let -PRON- see what page 534 have in store for -PRON- . number 
      thirteen be ' there , ' which be much more promising . number one hundred 
      and twenty - seven be ' is'--'there is'"--holme 's eye be gleam 
      with excitement , and -PRON- thin , nervous finger twitch as -PRON- count 
      the words--"'danger . ' ha ! ha ! capital ! put that down , Watson . ' there 
      be danger-- may-- come-- very-- soon-- one . ' then -PRON- have the name 
      ' Douglas ' --'rich-- country-- now-- at-- birlstone-- house-- 
      Birlstone-- confidence-- is-- press . ' there , Watson ! what do -PRON- 
      think of pure reason and -PRON- fruit ? if the greengrocer have such a 
      thing as a laurel wreath , -PRON- should send Billy round for -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- be stare at the strange message which -PRON- have scrawl , as -PRON- 
      decipher -PRON- , upon a sheet of foolscap on -PRON- knee . 

      " what a queer , scramble way of express -PRON- meaning ! " say I. 

      " on the contrary , -PRON- have do quite remarkably well , " say Holmes . 
      " when -PRON- search a single column for word with which to express -PRON- 
      meaning , -PRON- can hardly expect to get everything -PRON- want . -PRON- be 
      bind to leave something to the intelligence of -PRON- correspondent . 
      the purport be perfectly clear . some deviltry be intend against one 
      Douglas , whoever -PRON- may be , reside as state , a rich country 
      gentleman . -PRON- be sure--'confidence ' be as near as -PRON- could get to 
      ' confident'--that -PRON- be press . there be -PRON- result -- and a very 
      workmanlike little bit of analysis -PRON- be ! " 

      Holmes have the impersonal joy of the true artist in -PRON- well work , 
      even as -PRON- mourn darkly when -PRON- fall below the high level to which 
      -PRON- aspire . -PRON- be still chuckle over -PRON- success when Billy swing 
      open the door and Inspector MacDonald of Scotland Yard be usher 
      into the room . 

      those be the early day at the end of the ' 80 's , when Alec 
      MacDonald be far from have attain the national fame which -PRON- have 
      now achieve . -PRON- be a young but trust member of the detective 
      force , who have distinguish -PRON- in several case which have be 
      entrust to -PRON- . -PRON- tall , bony figure give promise of exceptional 
      physical strength , while -PRON- great cranium and deep - set , lustrous 
      eye speak no less clearly of the keen intelligence which twinkle 
      out from behind -PRON- bushy eyebrow . -PRON- be a silent , precise man with 
      a dour nature and a hard aberdonian accent . 

      twice already in -PRON- career have Holmes help -PRON- to attain success , 
      -PRON- own sole reward be the intellectual joy of the problem . for 
      this reason the affection and respect of the Scotchman for -PRON- 
      amateur colleague be profound , and -PRON- show -PRON- by the frankness 
      with which -PRON- consult Holmes in every difficulty . mediocrity know 
      nothing high than -PRON- ; but talent instantly recognize genius , 
      and MacDonald have talent enough for -PRON- profession to enable -PRON- to 
      perceive that there be no humiliation in seek the assistance of 
      one who already stand alone in Europe , both in -PRON- gift and in -PRON- 
      experience . Holmes be not prone to friendship , but -PRON- be tolerant 
      of the big Scotchman , and smile at the sight of -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be an early bird , Mr. Mac , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- wish -PRON- luck with -PRON- 
      worm . -PRON- fear this mean that there be some mischief afoot . " 

      " if -PRON- say ' hope ' instead of ' fear , ' -PRON- would be nearer the truth , 
      -PRON- be think , Mr. Holmes , " the inspector answer , with a know 
      grin . " well , maybe a wee nip would keep out the raw morning chill . 
      no , -PRON- will not smoke , -PRON- thank -PRON- . -PRON- will have to be push on -PRON- way ; 
      for the early hour of a case be the precious one , as no man know 
      better than -PRON- own self . but -- but-- " 

      the inspector have stop suddenly , and be stare with a look of 
      absolute amazement at a paper upon the table . -PRON- be the sheet upon 
      which -PRON- have scrawl the enigmatic message . 

      " Douglas ! " -PRON- stammer . " Birlstone ! what be this , Mr. Holmes ? Man , 
      -PRON- be witchcraft ! where in the name of all that be wonderful do -PRON- 
      get those name ? " 

      " -PRON- be a cipher that Dr. Watson and -PRON- have have occasion to solve . but 
      why -- what be amiss with the name ? " 

      the inspector look from one to the other of -PRON- in dazed 
      astonishment . " just this , " say -PRON- , " that Mr. Douglas of Birlstone 
      Manor House be horribly murder last night ! " 





           CHAPTER II 
           Sherlock Holmes discourse 


      -PRON- be one of those dramatic moment for which -PRON- friend exist . -PRON- 
      would be an overstatement to say that -PRON- be shocked or even excited 
      by the amazing announcement . without have a tinge of cruelty in -PRON- 
      singular composition , -PRON- be undoubtedly callous from long 
      over - stimulation . yet , if -PRON- emotion be dull , -PRON- intellectual 
      perception be exceedingly active . there be no trace then of the 
      horror which -PRON- have -PRON- feel at this curt declaration ; but -PRON- face 
      show rather the quiet and interested composure of the chemist who 
      see the crystal fall into position from -PRON- oversaturated 
      solution . 

      " remarkable ! " say -PRON- . " remarkable ! " 

      " -PRON- do not seem surprised . " 

      " Interested , Mr. Mac , but hardly surprised . why should -PRON- be 
      surprised ? -PRON- receive an anonymous communication from a quarter which 
      -PRON- know to be important , warn -PRON- that danger threaten a certain 
      person . within an hour -PRON- learn that this danger have actually 
      materialize and that the person be dead . -PRON- be interested ; but , as 
      -PRON- observe , -PRON- be not surprised . " 

      in a few short sentence -PRON- explain to the inspector the fact 
      about the letter and the cipher . MacDonald sit with -PRON- chin on -PRON- 
      hand and -PRON- great sandy eyebrow bunch into a yellow tangle . 

      " -PRON- be go down to Birlstone this morning , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- have come to 
      ask -PRON- if -PRON- care to come with -PRON- -- -PRON- and -PRON- friend here . but 
      from what -PRON- say -PRON- may perhaps be do well work in London . " 

      " -PRON- rather think not , " say Holmes . 

      " hang -PRON- all , Mr. Holmes ! " cry the inspector . " the paper will be 
      full of the Birlstone mystery in a day or two ; but where be the 
      mystery if there be a man in London who prophesy the crime before 
      ever -PRON- occur ? -PRON- have only to lay -PRON- hand on that man , and the 
      rest will follow . " 

      " no doubt , Mr. Mac . but how do -PRON- propose to lay -PRON- hand on the 
      so - call Porlock ? " 

      MacDonald turn over the letter which Holmes have hand -PRON- . " post 
      in Camberwell -- that do not help -PRON- much . name , -PRON- say , be assume . 
      not much to go on , certainly . do not -PRON- say that -PRON- have send -PRON- 
      money ? " 

      " twice . " 

      " and how ? " 

      " in note to Camberwell post - office . " 

      " do -PRON- ever trouble to see who call for -PRON- ? " 

      " no . " 

      the inspector look surprised and a little shocked . " why not ? " 

      " because -PRON- always keep faith . -PRON- have promise when -PRON- first write that 
      -PRON- would not try to trace -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- think there be someone behind -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- know there be . " 

      " this professor that -PRON- have hear -PRON- mention ? " 

      " exactly ! " 

      Inspector MacDonald smile , and -PRON- eyelid quiver as -PRON- glance 
      towards -PRON- . " -PRON- will not conceal from -PRON- , Mr. Holmes , that -PRON- think in 
      the C. I. D. that -PRON- have a wee bit of a bee in -PRON- bonnet over 
      this professor . -PRON- make some inquiry -PRON- about the matter . -PRON- 
      seem to be a very respectable , learn , and talented sort of man . " 

      " -PRON- be glad -PRON- have get so far as to recognize the talent . " 

      " man , -PRON- can not but recognize -PRON- ! after -PRON- hear -PRON- view -PRON- make -PRON- 
      -PRON- business to see -PRON- . -PRON- have a chat with -PRON- on eclipse . how the 
      talk get that way -PRON- canna think ; but -PRON- have out a reflector lantern 
      and a globe , and make -PRON- all clear in a minute . -PRON- lend -PRON- a book ; 
      but -PRON- do not mind say that -PRON- be a bit above -PRON- head , though -PRON- have 
      a good Aberdeen upbringing . -PRON- would have make a grand meenister with -PRON- 
      thin face and gray hair and solemn - like way of talk . when -PRON- put 
      -PRON- hand on -PRON- shoulder as -PRON- be part , -PRON- be like a father 's 
      blessing before -PRON- go out into the cold , cruel world . " 

      Holmes chuckle and rub -PRON- hand . " great ! " -PRON- say . " great ! tell 
      -PRON- , Friend MacDonald , this pleasing and touching interview be , -PRON- 
      suppose , in the professor 's study ? " 

      " that be so . " 

      " a fine room , be -PRON- not ? " 

      " very fine -- very handsome indeed , Mr. Holmes . " 

      " -PRON- sit in front of -PRON- write desk ? " 

      " just so . " 

      " Sun in -PRON- eye and -PRON- face in the shadow ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be evening ; but -PRON- mind that the lamp be turn on -PRON- 
      face . " 

      " -PRON- would be . do -PRON- happen to observe a picture over the 
      professor 's head ? " 

      " -PRON- do not miss much , Mr. Holmes . maybe -PRON- learn that from -PRON- . yes , -PRON- 
      see the picture -- a young woman with -PRON- head on -PRON- hand , peep at 
      -PRON- sideways . " 

      " that painting be by Jean Baptiste Greuze . " 

      the inspector endeavour to look interested . 

      " Jean Baptiste Greuze , " Holmes continue , join -PRON- finger tip and 
      lean well back in -PRON- chair , " be a french artist who flourish 
      between the year 1750 and 1800 . -PRON- allude , of course to -PRON- working 
      career . modern criticism have more than indorse the high opinion 
      form of -PRON- by -PRON- contemporary . " 

      the inspector 's eye grow abstract . " have not -PRON- better-- " -PRON- say . 

      " -PRON- be do so , " Holmes interrupted . " all that -PRON- be say have a 
      very direct and vital bearing upon what -PRON- have call the Birlstone 
      Mystery . in fact , -PRON- may in a sense be call the very centre of -PRON- . " 

      MacDonald smile feebly , and look appealingly to -PRON- . " -PRON- thought 
      move a bit too quick for -PRON- , Mr. Holmes . -PRON- leave out a link or two , 
      and -PRON- can not get over the gap . what in the whole wide world can be the 
      connection between this dead painting man and the affair at 
      Birlstone ? " 

      " all knowledge come useful to the detective , " remark Holmes . " even 
      the trivial fact that in the year 1865 a picture by Greuze entitle 
      La Jeune Fille a l'Agneau fetch one million two hundred thousand 
      franc -- more than forty thousand pound -- at the portalis sale may 
      start a train of reflection in -PRON- mind . " 

      -PRON- be clear that -PRON- do . the inspector look honestly interested . 

      " -PRON- may remind -PRON- , " Holmes continue , " that the professor 's salary 
      can be ascertain in several trustworthy book of reference . -PRON- be 
      seven hundred a year . " 

      " then how could -PRON- buy-- " 

      " quite so ! how could -PRON- ? " 

      " ay , that be remarkable , " say the inspector thoughtfully . " talk away , 
      Mr. Holmes . -PRON- be just love -PRON- . -PRON- be fine ! " 

      Holmes smile . -PRON- be always warm by genuine admiration -- the 
      characteristic of the real artist . " what about Birlstone ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- have time yet , " say the inspector , glance at -PRON- watch . " -PRON- have a 
      cab at the door , and -PRON- will not take -PRON- twenty minute to Victoria . but 
      about this picture : -PRON- think -PRON- tell -PRON- once , Mr. Holmes , that -PRON- 
      have never meet Professor Moriarty . " 

      " no , -PRON- never have . " 

      " then how do -PRON- know about -PRON- room ? " 

      " ah , that be another matter . -PRON- have be three time in -PRON- room , 
      twice wait for -PRON- under different pretext and leave before -PRON- 
      come . once -- well , -PRON- can hardly tell about the once to an official 
      detective . -PRON- be on the last occasion that -PRON- take the liberty of 
      run over -PRON- paper -- with the most unexpected result . " 

      " -PRON- find something compromise ? " 

      " absolutely nothing . that be what amaze -PRON- . however , -PRON- have now 
      see the point of the picture . -PRON- show -PRON- to be a very wealthy man . 
      how do -PRON- acquire wealth ? -PRON- be unmarried . -PRON- young brother be a 
      station master in the west of England . -PRON- chair be worth seven 
      hundred a year . and -PRON- own a Greuze . " 

      " well ? " 

      " surely the inference be plain . " 

      " -PRON- mean that -PRON- have a great income and that -PRON- must earn -PRON- in an 
      illegal fashion ? " 

      " exactly . of course -PRON- have other reason for think so -- dozen of 
      exiguous thread which lead vaguely up towards the centre of the web 
      where the poisonous , motionless creature be lurk . -PRON- only mention 
      the Greuze because -PRON- bring the matter within the range of -PRON- own 
      observation . " 

      " well , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- admit that what -PRON- say be interesting : -PRON- be 
      more than interesting -- -PRON- be just wonderful . but let -PRON- have -PRON- a 
      little clear if -PRON- can . be -PRON- forgery , coin , burglary -- where 
      do the money come from ? " 

      " have -PRON- ever read of Jonathan Wild ? " 

      " well , the name have a familiar sound . someone in a novel , be -PRON- not ? 
      -PRON- do not take much stock of detective in novel -- chap that do thing 
      and never let -PRON- see how -PRON- do -PRON- . that be just inspiration : not 
      business . " 

      " Jonathan Wild be not a detective , and -PRON- be not in a novel . -PRON- be a 
      master criminal , and -PRON- live last century--1750 or thereabout . " 

      " then -PRON- be no use to -PRON- . -PRON- be a practical man . " 

      " Mr. Mac , the most practical thing that -PRON- ever do in -PRON- life 
      would be to shut -PRON- up for three month and read twelve hour a 
      day at the annal of crime . everything come in circle -- even 
      Professor Moriarty . Jonathan Wild be the hidden force of the London 
      criminal , to whom -PRON- sell -PRON- brain and -PRON- organization on a 
      fifteen per cent commission . the old wheel turn , and the same spoke 
      come up . -PRON- be all be do before , and will be again . -PRON- will tell -PRON- 
      one or two thing about Moriarty which may interest -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- will interest -PRON- , right enough . " 

      " -PRON- happen to know who be the first link in -PRON- chain -- a chain with 
      this Napoleon - go - wrong at one end , and a hundred broken fighting 
      man , pickpocket , blackmailer , and card sharper at the other , with 
      every sort of crime in between . -PRON- chief of staff be Colonel 
      Sebastian Moran , as aloof and guard and inaccessible to the law as 
      -PRON- . what do -PRON- think -PRON- pay -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- would like to hear . " 

      " six thousand a year . that be pay for brain , -PRON- see -- the american 
      business principle . -PRON- learn that detail quite by chance . -PRON- be more 
      than the Prime Minister get . that give -PRON- an idea of Moriarty 's 
      gain and of the scale on which -PRON- work . another point : -PRON- make -PRON- -PRON- 
      business to hunt down some of Moriarty 's check lately -- just common 
      innocent check that -PRON- pay -PRON- household bill with . -PRON- be 
      draw on six different bank . do that make any impression on -PRON- 
      mind ? " 

      " Queer , certainly ! but what do -PRON- gather from -PRON- ? " 

      " that -PRON- want no gossip about -PRON- wealth . no single man should know 
      what -PRON- have . -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- have twenty banking account ; the 
      bulk of -PRON- fortune abroad in the Deutsche Bank or the Credit 
      Lyonnais as likely as not . sometime when -PRON- have a year or two to 
      spare -PRON- commend to -PRON- the study of Professor Moriarty . " 

      Inspector MacDonald have grow steadily more impressed as the 
      conversation proceed . -PRON- have lose -PRON- in -PRON- interest . now -PRON- 
      practical Scotch intelligence bring -PRON- back with a snap to the 
      matter in hand . 

      " -PRON- can keep , anyhow , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- have get -PRON- side - track with -PRON- 
      interesting anecdote , Mr. Holmes . what really count be -PRON- remark 
      that there be some connection between the professor and the crime . 
      that -PRON- get from the warning receive through the man Porlock . Can 
      -PRON- for -PRON- present practical need get any further than that ? " 

      " -PRON- may form some conception as to the motive of the crime . -PRON- be , 
      as -PRON- gather from -PRON- original remark , an inexplicable , or at least 
      an unexplained , murder . now , presume that the source of the crime 
      be as -PRON- suspect -PRON- to be , there may be two different motive . in 
      the first place , -PRON- may tell -PRON- that Moriarty rule with a rod of 
      iron over -PRON- people . -PRON- discipline be tremendous . there be only one 
      punishment in -PRON- code . -PRON- be death . now -PRON- may suppose that this 
      murdered man -- this Douglas whose approach fate be know by one of 
      the arch - criminal 's subordinate -- have in some way betray the chief . 
      -PRON- punishment follow , and would be know to all -- if only to put 
      the fear of death into -PRON- . " 

      " well , that be one suggestion , Mr. Holmes . " 

      " the other be that -PRON- have be engineer by Moriarty in the ordinary 
      course of business . be there any robbery ? " 

      " -PRON- have not hear . " 

      " if so , -PRON- would , of course , be against the first hypothesis and in 
      favour of the second . Moriarty may have be engage to engineer -PRON- 
      on a promise of part spoil , or -PRON- may have be pay so much down to 
      manage -PRON- . either be possible . but whichever -PRON- may be , or if -PRON- be 
      some third combination , -PRON- be down at Birlstone that -PRON- must seek the 
      solution . -PRON- know -PRON- man too well to suppose that -PRON- have leave 
      anything up here which may lead -PRON- to -PRON- . " 

      " then to Birlstone -PRON- must go ! " cry MacDonald , jump from -PRON- 
      chair . " -PRON- word ! -PRON- be later than -PRON- think . -PRON- can give -PRON- , 
      gentleman , five minute for preparation , and that be all . " 

      " and ample for -PRON- both , " say Holmes , as -PRON- spring up and hasten to 
      change from -PRON- dressing gown to -PRON- coat . " while -PRON- be on -PRON- way , 
      Mr. Mac , -PRON- will ask -PRON- to be good enough to tell -PRON- all about -PRON- . " 

      " all about -PRON- " prove to be disappointingly little , and yet there be 
      enough to assure -PRON- that the case before -PRON- may well be worthy of 
      the expert 's close attention . -PRON- brighten and rub -PRON- thin 
      hand together as -PRON- listen to the meagre but remarkable detail . a 
      long series of sterile week lie behind -PRON- , and here at last there 
      be a fitting object for those remarkable power which , like all 
      special gift , become irksome to -PRON- owner when -PRON- be not in 
      use . that razor brain blunt and rust with inaction . 

      Sherlock Holmes 's eye glisten , -PRON- pale cheek take a warm hue , 
      and -PRON- whole eager face shine with an inward light when the call for 
      work reach -PRON- . lean forward in the cab , -PRON- listen intently to 
      MacDonald 's short sketch of the problem which await -PRON- in Sussex . 
      the inspector be -PRON- dependent , as -PRON- explain to -PRON- , upon a 
      scribble account forward to -PRON- by the milk train in the early 
      hour of the morning . White Mason , the local officer , be a personal 
      friend , and hence MacDonald have be notify much more promptly than 
      be usual at Scotland Yard when provincial need -PRON- assistance . -PRON- 
      be a very cold scent upon which the Metropolitan expert be generally 
      ask to run . 

      " dear Inspector MacDonald [ say the letter which -PRON- read to -PRON- ] : 
      " official requisition for -PRON- service be in separate envelope . this 
      be for -PRON- private eye . wire -PRON- what train in the morning -PRON- can 
      get for Birlstone , and -PRON- will meet -PRON- -- or have -PRON- meet if -PRON- be too 
      occupy . this case be a snorter . do not waste a moment in get 
      start . if -PRON- can bring Mr. Holmes , please do so ; for -PRON- will find 
      something after -PRON- own heart . -PRON- would think the whole thing have 
      be fix up for theatrical effect if there be not a dead man in the 
      middle of -PRON- . -PRON- word ! -PRON- be a snorter . " 

       " -PRON- friend seem to be no fool , " remark Holmes . 

      " no , sir , White Mason be a very live man , if -PRON- be any judge . " 

      " well , have -PRON- anything more ? " 

      " only that -PRON- will give -PRON- every detail when -PRON- meet . " 

      " then how do -PRON- get at Mr. Douglas and the fact that -PRON- have be 
      horribly murder ? " 

      " that be in the enclosed official report . -PRON- do not say ' horrible ' : 
      that be not a recognize official term . -PRON- give the name John Douglas . 
      -PRON- mention that -PRON- injury have be in the head , from the 
      discharge of a shotgun . -PRON- also mention the hour of the alarm , 
      which be close on to midnight last night . -PRON- add that the case be 
      undoubtedly one of murder , but that no arrest have be make , and that 
      the case be one which present some very perplexing and 
      extraordinary feature . that be absolutely all -PRON- have at present , Mr. 
      Holmes . " 

      " then , with -PRON- permission , -PRON- will leave -PRON- at that , Mr. Mac . the 
      temptation to form premature theory upon insufficient datum be the 
      bane of -PRON- profession . -PRON- can see only two thing for certain at 
      present -- a great brain in London , and a dead man in Sussex . -PRON- be the 
      chain between that -PRON- be go to trace . " 





           CHAPTER iii 
           the Tragedy of Birlstone 


      now for a moment -PRON- will ask leave to remove -PRON- own insignificant 
      personality and to describe event which occur before -PRON- arrive 
      upon the scene by the light of knowledge which come to -PRON- afterwards . 
      only in this way can -PRON- make the reader appreciate the people 
      concern and the strange setting in which -PRON- fate be cast . 

      the village of Birlstone be a small and very ancient cluster of 
      half - timbere cottage on the northern border of the county of 
      Sussex . for century -PRON- have remain unchanged ; but within the last 
      few year -PRON- picturesque appearance and situation have attract a 
      number of well - to - do resident , whose villas peep out from the wood 
      around . these wood be locally suppose to be the extreme fringe of 
      the great Weald forest , which thin away until -PRON- reach the 
      northern chalk down . a number of small shop have come into be to 
      meet the want of the increase population ; so there seem some 
      prospect that Birlstone may soon grow from an ancient village into a 
      modern town . -PRON- be the centre for a considerable area of country , 
      since Tunbridge Wells , the near place of importance , be ten or 
      twelve mile to the eastward , over the border of Kent . 

      about half a mile from the town , stand in an old park famous for 
      -PRON- huge beech tree , be the ancient Manor House of Birlstone . part 
      of this venerable building date back to the time of the first 
      crusade , when Hugo de Capus build a fortalice in the centre of the 
      estate , which have be grant to -PRON- by the Red King . this be 
      destroy by fire in 1543 , and some of -PRON- smoke - blacken corner 
      stone be use when , in Jacobean time , a brick country house rise 
      upon the ruin of the feudal castle . 

      the Manor House , with -PRON- many gable and -PRON- small diamond - pan 
      window , be still much as the builder have leave -PRON- in the early 
      seventeenth century . of the double moat which have guard -PRON- more 
      warlike predecessor , the outer have be allow to dry up , and serve 
      the humble function of a kitchen garden . the inner one be still 
      there , and lie forty foot in breadth , though now only a few foot in 
      depth , round the whole house . a small stream feed -PRON- and continue 
      beyond -PRON- , so that the sheet of water , though turbid , be never 
      ditch - like or unhealthy . the ground floor window be within a foot 
      of the surface of the water . 

      the only approach to the house be over a drawbridge , the chain and 
      windlass of which have long be rust and break . the late tenant 
      of the Manor House have , however , with characteristic energy , set this 
      right , and the drawbridge be not only capable of be raise , but 
      actually be raise every evening and lower every morning . by thus 
      renew the custom of the old feudal day the Manor House be 
      convert into an island during the night -- a fact which have a very 
      direct bearing upon the mystery which be soon to engage the 
      attention of all England . 

      the house have be untenanted for some year and be threaten to 
      moulder into a picturesque decay when the Douglases take possession 
      of -PRON- . this family consist of only two individual -- John Douglas 
      and -PRON- wife . Douglas be a remarkable man , both in character and in 
      person . in age -PRON- may have be about fifty , with a strong - jawed , 
      rugged face , a grizzle moustache , peculiarly keen gray eye , and a 
      wiry , vigorous figure which have lose nothing of the strength and 
      activity of youth . -PRON- be cheery and genial to all , but somewhat 
      offhand in -PRON- manner , give the impression that -PRON- have see life 
      in social strata on some far low horizon than the county society of 
      Sussex . 

      yet , though look at with some curiosity and reserve by -PRON- more 
      cultivate neighbour , -PRON- soon acquire a great popularity among the 
      villager , subscribe handsomely to all local object , and attend 
      -PRON- smoking concert and other function , where , have a 
      remarkably rich tenor voice , -PRON- be always ready to oblige with an 
      excellent song . -PRON- appear to have plenty of money , which be say 
      to have be gain in the California gold field , and -PRON- be clear 
      from -PRON- own talk and that of -PRON- wife that -PRON- have spend a part of 
      -PRON- life in America . 

      the good impression which have be produce by -PRON- generosity and by 
      -PRON- democratic manner be increase by a reputation gain for utter 
      indifference to danger . though a wretched rider , -PRON- turn out at 
      every meet , and take the most amazing fall in -PRON- determination to 
      hold -PRON- own with the good . when the vicarage catch fire -PRON- 
      distinguish -PRON- also by the fearlessness with which -PRON- 
      reentere the building to save property , after the local fire brigade 
      have give -PRON- up as impossible . thus -PRON- come about that John Douglas 
      of the Manor House have within five year win -PRON- quite a 
      reputation in Birlstone . 

      -PRON- wife , too , be popular with those who have make -PRON- acquaintance ; 
      though , after the english fashion , the caller upon a stranger who 
      settle in the county without introduction be few and far between . 
      this matter the less to -PRON- , as -PRON- be retire by disposition , 
      and very much absorb , to all appearance , in -PRON- husband and -PRON- 
      domestic duty . -PRON- be know that -PRON- be an english lady who have 
      meet Mr. Douglas in London , -PRON- be at that time a widower . -PRON- be a 
      beautiful woman , tall , dark , and slender , some twenty year young 
      than -PRON- husband , a disparity which seem in no wise to mar the 
      contentment of -PRON- family life . 

      -PRON- be remark sometimes , however , by those who know -PRON- best , that 
      the confidence between the two do not appear to be complete , since 
      the wife be either very reticent about -PRON- husband 's past life , or 
      else , as seem more likely , be imperfectly inform about -PRON- . -PRON- 
      have also be note and comment upon by a few observant people that 
      there be sign sometimes of some nerve - strain upon the part of Mrs. 
      Douglas , and that -PRON- would display acute uneasiness if -PRON- absent 
      husband should ever be particularly late in -PRON- return . on a quiet 
      countryside , where all gossip be welcome , this weakness of the lady 
      of the Manor House do not pass without remark , and -PRON- bulk large 
      upon people 's memory when the event arise which give -PRON- a very 
      special significance . 

      there be yet another individual whose residence under that roof be , 
      -PRON- be true , only an intermittent one , but whose presence at the time 
      of the strange happening which will now be narrate bring -PRON- name 
      prominently before the public . this be Cecil James Barker , of Hales 
      Lodge , Hampstead . 

      Cecil Barker 's tall , loose - joint figure be a familiar one in the 
      main street of Birlstone village ; for -PRON- be a frequent and welcome 
      visitor at the Manor House . -PRON- be the more noticed as be the only 
      friend of the past unknown life of Mr. Douglas who be ever see in 
      -PRON- new english surrounding . Barker be -PRON- an undoubted 
      Englishman ; but by -PRON- remark -PRON- be clear that -PRON- have first know 
      Douglas in America and have there live on intimate term with -PRON- . -PRON- 
      appear to be a man of considerable wealth , and be repute to be a 
      bachelor . 

      in age -PRON- be rather young than Douglas -- forty - five at the most -- a 
      tall , straight , broad - cheste fellow with a clean - shaved , 
      prize - fighter face , thick , strong , black eyebrow , and a pair of 
      masterful black eye which may , even without the aid of -PRON- very 
      capable hand , clear a way for -PRON- through a hostile crowd . -PRON- 
      neither ride nor shoot , but spend -PRON- day in wander round the old 
      village with -PRON- pipe in -PRON- mouth , or in drive with -PRON- host , or 
      in -PRON- absence with -PRON- hostess , over the beautiful countryside . " an 
      easy - going , free - handed gentleman , " say Ames , the butler . " but , -PRON- 
      word ! -PRON- have rather not be the man that cross -PRON- ! " -PRON- be cordial 
      and intimate with Douglas , and -PRON- be no less friendly with -PRON- 
      wife -- a friendship which more than once seem to cause some 
      irritation to the husband , so that even the servant be able to 
      perceive -PRON- annoyance . such be the third person who be one of the 
      family when the catastrophe occur . 

      as to the other denizen of the old building , -PRON- will suffice out of 
      a large household to mention the prim , respectable , and capable ame , 
      and Mrs. Allen , a buxom and cheerful person , who relieve the lady of 
      some of -PRON- household care . the other six servant in the house bear 
      no relation to the event of the night of January 6th . 

      -PRON- be at eleven forty - five that the first alarm reach the small 
      local police station , in charge of Sergeant Wilson of the Sussex 
      Constabulary . Cecil Barker , much excited , have rush up to the door 
      and peal furiously upon the bell . a terrible tragedy have occur 
      at the Manor House , and John Douglas have be murder . that be the 
      breathless burden of -PRON- message . -PRON- have hurry back to the house , 
      follow within a few minute by the police sergeant , who arrive at 
      the scene of the crime a little after twelve o'clock , after take 
      prompt step to warn the county authority that something serious 
      be afoot . 

      on reach the Manor House , the sergeant have find the drawbridge 
      down , the window light up , and the whole household in a state of 
      wild confusion and alarm . the white - face servant be huddle 
      together in the hall , with the frightened butler wring -PRON- hand 
      in the doorway . only Cecil Barker seem to be master of -PRON- and 
      -PRON- emotion ; -PRON- have open the door which be near to the 
      entrance and -PRON- have beckon to the sergeant to follow -PRON- . at that 
      moment there arrive Dr. Wood , a brisk and capable general 
      practitioner from the village . the three man enter the fatal room 
      together , while the horror - stricken butler follow at -PRON- heel , 
      close the door behind -PRON- to shut out the terrible scene from the 
      maid servant . 

      the dead man lie on -PRON- back , sprawl with outstretched limb in 
      the centre of the room . -PRON- be clothe only in a pink dressing gown , 
      which cover -PRON- night clothe . there be carpet slipper on -PRON- 
      bare foot . the doctor knelt beside -PRON- and hold down the hand lamp 
      which have stand on the table . one glance at the victim be enough to 
      show the healer that -PRON- presence could be dispense with . the man 
      have be horribly injure . lie across -PRON- chest be a curious 
      weapon , a shotgun with the barrel saw off a foot in front of the 
      trigger . -PRON- be clear that this have be fire at close range and 
      that -PRON- have receive the whole charge in the face , blow -PRON- head 
      almost to piece . the trigger have be wire together , so as to make 
      the simultaneous discharge more destructive . 

      the country policeman be unnerved and trouble by the tremendous 
      responsibility which have come so suddenly upon -PRON- . " -PRON- will touch 
      nothing until -PRON- superior arrive , " -PRON- say in a hushed voice , 
      stare in horror at the dreadful head . 

      " nothing have be touch up to now , " say Cecil Barker . " -PRON- will answer 
      for that . -PRON- see -PRON- all exactly as -PRON- find -PRON- . " 

      " when be that ? " the sergeant have draw out -PRON- notebook . 

      " -PRON- be just half - past eleven . -PRON- have not begin to undress , and -PRON- be 
      sit by the fire in -PRON- bedroom when -PRON- hear the report . -PRON- be not 
      very loud -- -PRON- seem to be muffle . -PRON- rush down -- -PRON- do not suppose -PRON- 
      be thirty second before -PRON- be in the room . " 

      " be the door open ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- be open . poor Douglas be lie as -PRON- see -PRON- . -PRON- bedroom 
      candle be burn on the table . -PRON- be -PRON- who light the lamp some 
      minute afterward . " 

      " do -PRON- see no one ? " 

      " no . -PRON- hear Mrs. Douglas come down the stair behind -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      rush out to prevent -PRON- from see this dreadful sight . Mrs. 
      Allen , the housekeeper , come and take -PRON- away . ame have arrive , and 
      -PRON- run back into the room once more . " 

      " but surely -PRON- have hear that the drawbridge be keep up all night . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be up until -PRON- lower -PRON- . " 

      " then how could any murderer have get away ? -PRON- be out of the 
      question ! Mr. Douglas must have shoot -PRON- . " 

      " that be -PRON- first idea . but see ! " Barker draw aside the curtain , 
      and show that the long , diamond - pan window be open to -PRON- full 
      extent . " and look at this ! " -PRON- hold the lamp down and illuminate a 
      smudge of blood like the mark of a boot - sole upon the wooden sill . 
      " someone have stand there in get out . " 

      " -PRON- mean that someone wade across the moat ? " 

      " exactly ! " 

      " then if -PRON- be in the room within half a minute of the crime , -PRON- 
      must have be in the water at that very moment . " 

      " -PRON- have not a doubt of -PRON- . -PRON- wish to heaven that -PRON- have rush to the 
      window ! but the curtain screen -PRON- , as -PRON- can see , and so -PRON- never 
      occur to -PRON- . then -PRON- hear the step of Mrs. Douglas , and -PRON- could 
      not let -PRON- enter the room . -PRON- would have be too horrible . " 

      " horrible enough ! " say the doctor , look at the shattered head and 
      the terrible mark which surround -PRON- . " -PRON- have never see such 
      injury since the Birlstone railway smash . " 

      " but , -PRON- say , " remark the police sergeant , whose slow , bucolic 
      common sense be still ponder the open window . " -PRON- be all very well 
      -PRON- saying that a man escape by wade this moat , but what -PRON- ask 
      -PRON- be , how do -PRON- ever get into the house at all if the bridge be 
      up ? " 

      " ah , that be the question , " say Barker . 

      " at what o'clock be -PRON- raise ? " 

      " -PRON- be nearly six o'clock , " say Ames , the butler . 

      " -PRON- have hear , " say the sergeant , " that -PRON- be usually raise at 
      sunset . that would be near half - past four than six at this time of 
      year . " 

      " Mrs. Douglas have visitor to tea , " say Ames . " -PRON- could not raise -PRON- 
      until -PRON- go . then -PRON- wound -PRON- up -PRON- . " 

      " then -PRON- come to this , " say the sergeant : " if anyone come from 
      outside -- if -PRON- do -- -PRON- must have get in across the bridge before 
      six and be in hide ever since , until Mr. Douglas come into the 
      room after eleven . " 

      " that be so ! Mr. Douglas go round the house every night the last 
      thing before -PRON- turn in to see that the light be right . that 
      bring -PRON- in here . the man be wait and shoot -PRON- . then -PRON- get 
      away through the window and leave -PRON- gun behind -PRON- . that be how -PRON- 
      read -PRON- ; for nothing else will fit the fact . " 

      the sergeant pick up a card which lie beside the dead man on the 
      floor . the initial V. V. and under -PRON- the number 341 be rudely 
      scrawl in ink upon -PRON- . 

      " what be this ? " -PRON- ask , hold -PRON- up . 

      Barker look at -PRON- with curiosity . " -PRON- never notice -PRON- before , " -PRON- 
      say . " the murderer must have leave -PRON- behind -PRON- . " 

      " V. V.--341 . -PRON- can make no sense of that . " 

      the sergeant keep turn -PRON- over in -PRON- big finger . " what be V. V. ? 
      somebody 's initial , maybe . what have -PRON- get there , Dr. Wood ? " 

      -PRON- be a good - sized hammer which have be lie on the rug in front 
      of the fireplace -- a substantial , workmanlike hammer . Cecil Barker 
      point to a box of brass - head nail upon the mantelpiece . 

      " Mr. Douglas be alter the picture yesterday , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- see 
      -PRON- -PRON- , stand upon that chair and fix the big picture above 
      -PRON- . that account for the hammer . " 

      " -PRON- would best put -PRON- back on the rug where -PRON- find -PRON- , " say the 
      sergeant , scratch -PRON- puzzled head in -PRON- perplexity . " -PRON- will 
      want the good brain in the force to get to the bottom of this thing . 
      -PRON- will be a London job before -PRON- be finish . " -PRON- raise the hand 
      lamp and walk slowly round the room . " hullo ! " -PRON- cry , excitedly , 
      draw the window curtain to one side . " what o'clock be those 
      curtain draw ? " 

      " when the lamp be light , " say the butler . " -PRON- would be shortly 
      after four . " 

      " someone have be hide here , sure enough . " -PRON- hold down the light , 
      and the mark of muddy boot be very visible in the corner . " -PRON- be 
      bind to say this bear out -PRON- theory , Mr. Barker . -PRON- look as if 
      the man get into the house after four when the curtain be draw 
      and before six when the bridge be raise . -PRON- slip into this room , 
      because -PRON- be the first that -PRON- see . there be no other place where 
      -PRON- could hide , so -PRON- pop in behind this curtain . that all seem 
      clear enough . -PRON- be likely that -PRON- main idea be to burgle the 
      house ; but Mr. Douglas chance to come upon -PRON- , so -PRON- murder -PRON- 
      and escape . " 

      " that be how -PRON- read -PRON- , " say Barker . " but , -PRON- say , be not -PRON- waste 
      precious time ? Could not -PRON- start out and scour the country before the 
      fellow get away ? " 

      the sergeant consider for a moment . 

      " there be no train before six in the morning ; so -PRON- can not get away 
      by rail . if -PRON- go by road with -PRON- leg all dripping , -PRON- be odd 
      that someone will notice -PRON- . anyhow , -PRON- can not leave here -PRON- until 
      -PRON- be relieved . but -PRON- think none of -PRON- should go until -PRON- see more 
      clearly how -PRON- all stand . " 

      the doctor have take the lamp and be narrowly scrutinize the body . 
      " what be this mark ? " -PRON- ask . " Could this have any connection with 
      the crime ? " 

      the dead man 's right arm be thrust out from -PRON- dressing gown , and 
      expose as high as the elbow . about halfway up the forearm be a 
      curious brown design , a triangle inside a circle , stand out in 
      vivid relief upon the lard - colour skin . 

      " -PRON- be not tattoo , " say the doctor , peer through -PRON- glass . " -PRON- 
      never see anything like -PRON- . the man have be brand at some time as 
      -PRON- brand cattle . what be the meaning of this ? " 

      " -PRON- do not profess to know the meaning of -PRON- , " say Cecil Barker ; " but 
      -PRON- have see the mark on Douglas many time this last ten year . " 

      " and so have -PRON- , " say the butler . " many a time when the master have 
      roll up -PRON- sleeve -PRON- have notice that very mark . -PRON- have often 
      wonder what -PRON- could be . " 

      " then -PRON- have nothing to do with the crime , anyhow , " say the 
      sergeant . " but -PRON- be a rum thing all the same . everything about this 
      case be rum . well , what be -PRON- now ? " 

      the butler have give an exclamation of astonishment and be point 
      at the dead man 's outstretched hand . 

      " -PRON- have take -PRON- wedding ring ! " -PRON- gasp . 

      " what ! " 

      " yes , indeed . Master always wear -PRON- plain gold wedding ring on the 
      little finger of -PRON- left hand . that ring with the rough nugget on -PRON- 
      be above -PRON- , and the twist snake ring on the third finger . there be 
      the nugget and there be the snake , but the wedding ring be go . " 

      " -PRON- be right , " say Barker . 

      " do -PRON- tell -PRON- , " say the sergeant , " that the wedding ring be below 
      the other ? " 

      " always ! " 

      " then the murderer , or whoever -PRON- be , first take off this ring -PRON- 
      call the nugget ring , then the wedding ring , and afterwards put the 
      nugget ring back again . " 

      " that be so ! " 

      the worthy country policeman shake -PRON- head . " seem to -PRON- the sooner 
      -PRON- get London on to this case the well , " say -PRON- . " White Mason be a 
      smart man . no local job have ever be too much for White Mason . -PRON- 
      will not be long now before -PRON- be here to help -PRON- . but -PRON- expect -PRON- will 
      have to look to London before -PRON- be through . anyhow , -PRON- be not ashamed 
      to say that -PRON- be a deal too thick for the like of -PRON- . " 





           CHAPTER IV 
           Darkness 


      at three in the morning the chief Sussex detective , obey the 
      urgent call from Sergeant Wilson of Birlstone , arrive from 
      headquarters in a light dog - cart behind a breathless trotter . by the 
      five - forty train in the morning -PRON- have send -PRON- message to Scotland 
      yard , and -PRON- be at the Birlstone station at twelve o'clock to 
      welcome -PRON- . White Mason be a quiet , comfortable - look person in a 
      loose tweed suit , with a clean - shaved , ruddy face , a stoutish body , 
      and powerful bandy leg adorn with gaiter , look like a small 
      farmer , a retire gamekeeper , or anything upon earth except a very 
      favourable speciman of the provincial criminal officer . 

      " a real downright snorter , Mr. MacDonald ! " -PRON- keep repeat . " -PRON- will 
      have the pressman down like fly when -PRON- understand -PRON- . -PRON- be hope 
      -PRON- will get -PRON- work do before -PRON- get poke -PRON- nose into -PRON- 
      and mess up all the trail . there have be nothing like this that 
      -PRON- can remember . there be some bit that will come home to -PRON- , Mr. 
      Holmes , or -PRON- be mistaken . and -PRON- also , Dr. Watson ; for the medicos 
      will have a word to say before -PRON- finish . -PRON- room be at the 
      Westville Arms . there be no other place ; but -PRON- hear that -PRON- be clean 
      and good . the man will carry -PRON- bag . this way , gentleman , if -PRON- 
      please . " 

      -PRON- be a very bustling and genial person , this Sussex detective . in 
      ten minute -PRON- have all find -PRON- quarter . in ten more -PRON- be seat 
      in the parlour of the inn and be treat to a rapid sketch of 
      those event which have be outline in the previous chapter . 
      MacDonald make an occasional note , while Holmes sit absorb , with 
      the expression of surprised and reverent admiration with which the 
      botanist survey the rare and precious bloom . 

      " remarkable ! " -PRON- say , when the story be unfold , " most remarkable ! 
      -PRON- can hardly recall any case where the feature have be more 
      peculiar . " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- would say so , Mr. Holmes , " say White Mason in great 
      delight . " -PRON- be well up with the time in Sussex . -PRON- have tell -PRON- now 
      how matter be , up to the time when -PRON- take over from Sergeant 
      Wilson between three and four this morning . -PRON- word ! -PRON- make the old 
      mare go ! but -PRON- need not have be in such a hurry , as -PRON- turn out ; 
      for there be nothing immediate that -PRON- could do . Sergeant Wilson have 
      all the fact . -PRON- check -PRON- and consider -PRON- and maybe add a 
      few of -PRON- own . " 

      " what be -PRON- ? " ask Holmes eagerly . 

      " well , -PRON- first have the hammer examine . there be Dr. Wood there to 
      help -PRON- . -PRON- find no sign of violence upon -PRON- . -PRON- be hope that if 
      Mr. Douglas defend -PRON- with the hammer , -PRON- may have leave -PRON- 
      mark upon the murderer before -PRON- drop -PRON- on the mat . but there be 
      no stain . " 

      " that , of course , prove nothing at all , " remark Inspector 
      MacDonald . " there have be many a hammer murder and no trace on the 
      hammer . " 

      " quite so . -PRON- do not prove -PRON- be not use . but there may have be 
      stain , and that would have help -PRON- . as a matter of fact there be 
      none . then -PRON- examine the gun . -PRON- be buckshot cartridge , and , as 
      Sergeant Wilson point out , the trigger be wire together so 
      that , if -PRON- pull on the hinder one , both barrel be discharge . 
      whoever fix that up have make up -PRON- mind that -PRON- be go to take 
      no chance of miss -PRON- man . the sawed gun be not more than two 
      foot long -- one could carry -PRON- easily under one 's coat . there be no 
      complete maker 's name ; but the print letter P - E - N be on the 
      flute between the barrel , and the rest of the name have be cut 
      off by the saw . " 

      " a big p with a flourish above -PRON- , e and n small ? " ask Holmes . 

      " exactly . " 

      " Pennsylvania Small Arms Company -- well - know american firm , " say 
      Holmes . 

      White Mason gaze at -PRON- friend as the little village practitioner 
      look at the Harley Street specialist who by a word can solve the 
      difficulty that perplex -PRON- . 

      " that be very helpful , Mr. Holmes . no doubt -PRON- be right . wonderful ! 
      wonderful ! do -PRON- carry the name of all the gun maker in the world 
      in -PRON- memory ? " 

      Holmes dismiss the subject with a wave . 

      " no doubt -PRON- be an american shotgun , " White Mason continue . " -PRON- seem 
      to have read that a saw - off shotgun be a weapon use in some part 
      of America . apart from the name upon the barrel , the idea have 
      occur to -PRON- . there be some evidence then , that this man who 
      enter the house and kill -PRON- master be an American . " 

      MacDonald shake -PRON- head . " man , -PRON- be surely travel overfast , " 
      say -PRON- . " -PRON- have hear no evidence yet that any stranger be ever in 
      the house at all . " 

      " the open window , the blood on the sill , the queer card , the mark of 
      boot in the corner , the gun ! " 

      " nothing there that could not have be arrange . Mr. Douglas be an 
      american , or have live long in America . so have Mr. Barker . -PRON- do not 
      need to import an American from outside in order to account for 
      american doing . " 

      " ame , the butler-- " 

      " what about -PRON- ? be -PRON- reliable ? " 

      " ten year with Sir Charles Chandos -- as solid as a rock . -PRON- have be 
      with Douglas ever since -PRON- take the Manor House five year ago . -PRON- 
      have never see a gun of this sort in the house . " 

      " the gun be make to conceal . that be why the barrel be saw . -PRON- 
      would fit into any box . how could -PRON- swear there be no such gun in 
      the house ? " 

      " well , anyhow , -PRON- have never see one . " 

      MacDonald shake -PRON- obstinate Scotch head . " -PRON- be not convince yet 
      that there be ever anyone in the house , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be ask -PRON- to 
      conseedar " ( -PRON- accent become more Aberdonian as -PRON- lose -PRON- in 
      -PRON- argument ) " -PRON- be ask -PRON- to conseedar what -PRON- involve if -PRON- 
      suppose that this gun be ever bring into the house , and that all 
      these strange thing be do by a person from outside . oh , man , 
      -PRON- be just inconceivable ! -PRON- be clean against common sense ! -PRON- put -PRON- to 
      -PRON- , Mr. Holmes , judge -PRON- by what -PRON- have hear . " 

      " well , state -PRON- case , Mr. Mac , " say Holmes in -PRON- most judicial 
      style . 

      " the man be not a burglar , suppose that -PRON- ever exist . the ring 
      business and the card point to premeditate murder for some private 
      reason . very good . here be a man who slip into a house with the 
      deliberate intention of commit murder . -PRON- know , if -PRON- know 
      anything , that -PRON- will have a deeficulty in make -PRON- escape , as the 
      house be surround with water . what weapon would -PRON- choose ? -PRON- 
      would say the most silent in the world . then -PRON- could hope when the 
      deed be do to slip quickly from the window , to wade the moat , and 
      to get away at -PRON- leisure . that be understandable . but be -PRON- 
      understandable that -PRON- should go out of -PRON- way to bring with -PRON- the 
      most noisy weapon -PRON- could select , know well that -PRON- will fetch 
      every human being in the house to the spot as quick as -PRON- can run , 
      and that -PRON- be all odd that -PRON- will be see before -PRON- can get across 
      the moat ? be that credible , Mr. Holmes ? " 

      " well , -PRON- put the case strongly , " -PRON- friend reply thoughtfully . 
      " -PRON- certainly need a good deal of justification . May -PRON- ask , Mr. 
      White Mason , whether -PRON- examine the farther side of the moat at 
      once to see if there be any sign of the man have climb out 
      from the water ? " 

      " there be no sign , Mr. Holmes . but -PRON- be a stone ledge , and one 
      could hardly expect -PRON- . " 

      " no track or mark ? " 

      " none . " 

      " ha ! Would there be any objection , Mr. White Mason , to -PRON- go down 
      to the house at once ? there may possibly be some small point which 
      may be suggestive . " 

      " -PRON- be go to propose -PRON- , Mr. Holmes ; but -PRON- think -PRON- well to put 
      -PRON- in touch with all the fact before -PRON- go . -PRON- suppose if anything 
      should strike you-- " White Mason look doubtfully at the amateur . 

      " -PRON- have work with Mr. Holmes before , " say Inspector MacDonald . " -PRON- 
      play the game . " 

      " -PRON- own idea of the game , at any rate , " say Holmes , with a smile . " -PRON- 
      go into a case to help the end of justice and the work of the 
      police . if -PRON- have ever separate -PRON- from the official force , -PRON- 
      be because -PRON- have first separate -PRON- from -PRON- . -PRON- have no 
      wish ever to score at -PRON- expense . at the same time , Mr. White 
      Mason , -PRON- claim the right to work in -PRON- own way and give -PRON- result at 
      -PRON- own time -- complete rather than in stage . " 

      " -PRON- be sure -PRON- be honour by -PRON- presence and to show -PRON- all -PRON- 
      know , " say White Mason cordially . " come along , Dr. Watson , and when 
      the time come -PRON- will all hope for a place in -PRON- book . " 

      -PRON- walk down the quaint village street with a row of pollarded elm 
      on each side of -PRON- . just beyond be two ancient stone pillar , 
      weather - stain and lichen - blotch bearing upon -PRON- summit a 
      shapeless something which have once be the rampant lion of Capus of 
      Birlstone . a short walk along the winding drive with such sward and 
      oak around -PRON- as one only see in rural England , then a sudden turn , 
      and the long , low jacobean house of dingy , liver - colour brick lie 
      before -PRON- , with an old - fashioned garden of cut yew on each side of 
      -PRON- . as -PRON- approach -PRON- , there be the wooden drawbridge and the 
      beautiful broad moat as still and luminous as quicksilver in the 
      cold , winter sunshine . 

      three century have flow past the old Manor House , century of 
      birth and of homecoming , of country dance and of the meeting of 
      fox hunter . strange that now in -PRON- old age this dark business 
      should have cast -PRON- shadow upon the venerable wall ! and yet those 
      strange , peaked roof and quaint , overhung gable be a fitting 
      cover to grim and terrible intrigue . as -PRON- look at the deep - set 
      window and the long sweep of the dull - coloured , water - lap front , 
      -PRON- feel that no more fitting scene could be set for such a tragedy . 

      " that be the window , " say White Mason , " that one on the immediate 
      right of the drawbridge . -PRON- be open just as -PRON- be find last night . " 

      " -PRON- look rather narrow for a man to pass . " 

      " well , -PRON- be not a fat man , anyhow . -PRON- do not need -PRON- deduction , 
      Mr. Holmes , to tell -PRON- that . but -PRON- or -PRON- could squeeze through all 
      right . " 

      Holmes walk to the edge of the moat and look across . then -PRON- 
      examine the stone ledge and the grass border beyond -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- have have a good look , Mr. Holmes , " say White Mason . " there be 
      nothing there , no sign that anyone have land -- but why should -PRON- 
      leave any sign ? " 

      " exactly . why should -PRON- ? be the water always turbid ? " 

      " generally about this colour . the stream bring down the clay . " 

      " how deep be -PRON- ? " 

      " about two foot at each side and three in the middle . " 

      " so -PRON- can put aside all idea of the man have be drown in 
      crossing . " 

      " no , a child could not be drown in -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- walk across the drawbridge , and be admit by a quaint , 
      gnarl , dry - up person , who be the butler , Ames . the poor old 
      fellow be white and quiver from the shock . the village sergeant , 
      a tall , formal , melancholy man , still hold -PRON- vigil in the room of 
      Fate . the doctor have depart . 

      " anything fresh , Sergeant Wilson ? " ask White Mason . 

      " no , sir . " 

      " then -PRON- can go home . -PRON- have have enough . -PRON- can send for -PRON- if -PRON- 
      want -PRON- . the butler have better wait outside . tell -PRON- to warn Mr. 
      Cecil Barker , Mrs. Douglas , and the housekeeper that -PRON- may want a 
      word with -PRON- presently . now , gentleman , perhaps -PRON- will allow -PRON- 
      to give -PRON- the view -PRON- have form first , and then -PRON- will be able 
      to arrive at -PRON- own . " 

      -PRON- impress -PRON- , this country specialist . -PRON- have a solid grip of fact 
      and a cool , clear , common - sense brain , which should take -PRON- some way 
      in -PRON- profession . Holmes listen to -PRON- intently , with no sign of 
      that impatience which the official exponent too often produce . 

      " be -PRON- suicide , or be -PRON- murder -- that be -PRON- first question , 
      gentleman , be -PRON- not ? if -PRON- be suicide , then -PRON- have to believe 
      that this man begin by take off -PRON- wedding ring and conceal -PRON- ; 
      that -PRON- then come down here in -PRON- dressing gown , trample mud into a 
      corner behind the curtain in order to give the idea someone have 
      wait for -PRON- , open the window , put blood on the-- " 

      " -PRON- can surely dismiss that , " say MacDonald . 

      " so -PRON- think . suicide be out of the question . then a murder have be 
      do . what -PRON- have to determine be , whether -PRON- be do by someone 
      outside or inside the house . " 

      " well , let -PRON- hear the argument . " 

      " there be considerable difficulty both way , and yet one or the 
      other -PRON- must be . -PRON- will suppose first that some person or person 
      inside the house do the crime . -PRON- get this man down here at a time 
      when everything be still and yet no one be asleep . -PRON- then do 
      the deed with the queer and noisiest weapon in the world so as to 
      tell everyone what have happen -- a weapon that be never see in the 
      house before . that do not seem a very likely start , do -PRON- ? " 

      " no , -PRON- do not . " 

      " well , then , everyone be agree that after the alarm be give only a 
      minute at the most have pass before the whole household -- not Mr. 
      Cecil Barker alone , though -PRON- claim to have be the first , but Ames 
      and all of -PRON- be on the spot . do -PRON- tell -PRON- that in that time 
      the guilty person manage to make footmark in the corner , open the 
      window , mark the sill with blood , take the wedding ring off the dead 
      man 's finger , and all the rest of -PRON- ? -PRON- be impossible ! " 

      " -PRON- put -PRON- very clearly , " say Holmes . " -PRON- be incline to agree with 
      -PRON- . " 

      " well , then , -PRON- be drive back to the theory that -PRON- be do by 
      someone from outside . -PRON- be still face with some big difficulty ; 
      but anyhow -PRON- have cease to be impossibility . the man get into 
      the house between four - thirty and six ; that be to say , between dusk 
      and the time when the bridge be raise . there have be some 
      visitor , and the door be open ; so there be nothing to prevent -PRON- . 
      -PRON- may have be a common burglar , or -PRON- may have have some private 
      grudge against Mr. Douglas . since Mr. Douglas have spend most of -PRON- 
      life in America , and this shotgun seem to be an american weapon , -PRON- 
      would seem that the private grudge be the more likely theory . -PRON- 
      slip into this room because -PRON- be the first -PRON- come to , and -PRON- 
      hide behind the curtain . there -PRON- remain until past eleven at night . 
      at that time Mr. Douglas enter the room . -PRON- be a short interview , 
      if there be any interview at all ; for Mrs. Douglas declare that 
      -PRON- husband have not leave -PRON- more than a few minute when -PRON- hear 
      the shot . " 

      " the candle show that , " say Holmes . 

      " exactly . the candle , which be a new one , be not burn more than 
      half an inch . -PRON- must have place -PRON- on the table before -PRON- be 
      attack ; otherwise , of course , -PRON- would have fall when -PRON- fall . 
      this show that -PRON- be not attack the instant that -PRON- enter the 
      room . when Mr. Barker arrive the candle be light and the lamp be 
      out . " 

      " that be all clear enough . " 

      " well , now , -PRON- can reconstruct thing on those line . Mr. Douglas 
      enter the room . -PRON- put down the candle . a man appear from behind 
      the curtain . -PRON- be armed with this gun . -PRON- demand the wedding 
      ring -- Heaven only know why , but so -PRON- must have be . Mr. Douglas 
      give -PRON- up . then either in cold blood or in the course of a 
      struggle -- Douglas may have grip the hammer that be find upon the 
      mat -- -PRON- shoot Douglas in this horrible way . -PRON- drop -PRON- gun and 
      also -PRON- would seem this queer card -- V. V. 341 , whatever that may 
      mean -- and -PRON- make -PRON- escape through the window and across the moat 
      at the very moment when Cecil Barker be discover the crime . how be 
      that , Mr. Holmes ? " 

      " very interesting , but just a little unconvincing . " 

      " man , -PRON- would be absolute nonsense if -PRON- be not that anything else 
      be even bad ! " cry MacDonald . " somebody kill the man , and 
      whoever -PRON- be -PRON- could clearly prove to -PRON- that -PRON- should have do 
      -PRON- some other way . what do -PRON- mean by allow -PRON- retreat to be 
      cut off like that ? what do -PRON- mean by use a shotgun when silence 
      be -PRON- one chance of escape ? come , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- be up to -PRON- to 
      give -PRON- a lead , since -PRON- say Mr. White Mason 's theory be 
      unconvincing . " 

      Holmes have sit intently observant during this long discussion , 
      miss no word that be say , with -PRON- keen eye dart to right 
      and to leave , and -PRON- forehead wrinkle with speculation . 

      " -PRON- should like a few more fact before -PRON- get so far as a theory , Mr. 
      Mac , " say -PRON- , kneel down beside the body . " dear -PRON- ! these 
      injury be really appalling . Can -PRON- have the butler in for a 
      moment ? ... ame , -PRON- understand that -PRON- have often see this very 
      unusual mark -- a brand triangle inside a circle -- upon Mr. Douglas 's 
      forearm ? " 

      " frequently , sir . " 

      " -PRON- never hear any speculation as to what -PRON- mean ? " 

      " no , sir . " 

      " -PRON- must have cause great pain when -PRON- be inflict . -PRON- be 
      undoubtedly a burn . now , -PRON- observe , Ames , that there be a small piece 
      of plaster at the angle of Mr. Douglas 's jaw . do -PRON- observe that in 
      life ? " 

      " yes , sir , -PRON- cut -PRON- in shaving yesterday morning . " 

      " do -PRON- ever know -PRON- to cut -PRON- in shaving before ? " 

      " not for a very long time , sir . " 

      " suggestive ! " say Holmes . " -PRON- may , of course , be a mere coincidence , 
      or -PRON- may point to some nervousness which would indicate that -PRON- have 
      reason to apprehend danger . have -PRON- notice anything unusual in -PRON- 
      conduct , yesterday , Ames ? " 

      " -PRON- strike -PRON- that -PRON- be a little restless and excited , sir . " 

      " ha ! the attack may not have be entirely unexpected . -PRON- do seem to 
      make a little progress , do -PRON- not ? perhaps -PRON- would rather do the 
      question , Mr. Mac ? " 

      " no , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- be in well hand than -PRON- . " 

      " well , then , -PRON- will pass to this card -- V. V. 341 . -PRON- be rough 
      cardboard . have -PRON- any of the sort in the house ? " 

      " -PRON- do not think so . " 

      Holmes walk across to the desk and dab a little ink from each 
      bottle on to the blot paper . " -PRON- be not print in this room , " 
      -PRON- say ; " this be black ink and the other purplish . -PRON- be do by a 
      thick pen , and these be fine . no , -PRON- be do elsewhere , -PRON- should 
      say . Can -PRON- make anything of the inscription , Ames ? " 

      " no , sir , nothing . " 

      " what do -PRON- think , Mr. Mac ? " 

      " -PRON- give -PRON- the impression of a secret society of some sort ; the 
      same with -PRON- badge upon the forearm . " 

      " that be -PRON- idea , too , " say White Mason . 

      " well , -PRON- can adopt -PRON- as a work hypothesis and then see how far 
      -PRON- difficulty disappear . an agent from such a society make -PRON- 
      way into the house , wait for Mr. Douglas , blow -PRON- head nearly off 
      with this weapon , and escape by wade the moat , after leave a 
      card beside the dead man , which will when mention in the paper , 
      tell other member of the society that vengeance have be do . that 
      all hang together . but why this gun , of all weapon ? " 

      " exactly . " 

      " and why the miss ring ? " 

      " quite so . " 

      " and why no arrest ? -PRON- be past two now . -PRON- take -PRON- for grant that 
      since dawn every constable within forty mile have be look out 
      for a wet stranger ? " 

      " that be so , Mr. Holmes . " 

      " well , unless -PRON- have a burrow close by or a change of clothe ready , 
      -PRON- can hardly miss -PRON- . and yet -PRON- have miss -PRON- up to now ! " 
      Holmes have go to the window and be examine with -PRON- lens the 
      blood mark on the sill . " -PRON- be clearly the tread of a shoe . -PRON- be 
      remarkably broad ; a splay - foot , one would say . curious , because , so 
      far as one can trace any footmark in this mud - stain corner , one 
      would say -PRON- be a more shapely sole . however , -PRON- be certainly 
      very indistinct . what be this under the side table ? " 

      " Mr. Douglas 's dumb - bell , " say Ames . 

      " Dumb - bell -- there be only one . where be the other ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know , Mr. Holmes . there may have be only one . -PRON- have not 
      notice -PRON- for month . " 

      " one dumb - bell-- " Holmes say seriously ; but -PRON- remark be 
      interrupt by a sharp knock at the door . 

      a tall , sunburned , capable - looking , clean - shaved man look in at -PRON- . 
      -PRON- have no difficulty in guess that -PRON- be the Cecil Barker of whom 
      -PRON- have hear . -PRON- masterful eye travel quickly with a question 
      glance from face to face . 

      " sorry to interrupt -PRON- consultation , " say -PRON- , " but -PRON- should hear 
      the late news . " 

      " an arrest ? " 

      " no such luck . but -PRON- have find -PRON- bicycle . the fellow leave -PRON- 
      bicycle behind -PRON- . come and have a look . -PRON- be within a hundred 
      yard of the hall door . " 

      -PRON- find three or four groom and idler stand in the drive 
      inspect a bicycle which have be draw out from a clump of 
      evergreen in which -PRON- have be conceal . -PRON- be a well use 
      Rudge - Whitworth , splash as from a considerable journey . there be a 
      saddlebag with spanner and oilcan , but no clue as to the owner . 

      " -PRON- would be a grand help to the police , " say the inspector , " if 
      these thing be number and register . but -PRON- must be thankful 
      for what -PRON- have get . if -PRON- can not find where -PRON- go to , at least -PRON- 
      be likely to get where -PRON- come from . but what in the name of all 
      that be wonderful make the fellow leave -PRON- behind ? and how in the 
      world have -PRON- get away without -PRON- ? -PRON- do not seem to get a gleam of 
      light in the case , Mr. Holmes . " 

      " do not -PRON- ? " -PRON- friend answer thoughtfully . " -PRON- wonder ! " 





           CHAPTER V 
           the People of the Drama 


      " have -PRON- see all -PRON- want of the study ? " ask White Mason as -PRON- 
      reentere the house . 

      " for the time , " say the inspector , and Holmes nod . 

      " then perhaps -PRON- would now like to hear the evidence of some of the 
      people in the house . -PRON- could use the dining - room , Ames . please come 
      -PRON- first and tell -PRON- what -PRON- know . " 

      the butler 's account be a simple and a clear one , and -PRON- give a 
      convincing impression of sincerity . -PRON- have be engage five year 
      before , when Douglas first come to Birlstone . -PRON- understand that Mr. 
      Douglas be a rich gentleman who have make -PRON- money in America . -PRON- 
      have be a kind and considerate employer -- not quite what Ames be 
      use to , perhaps ; but one can not have everything . -PRON- never see any 
      sign of apprehension in Mr. Douglas : on the contrary , -PRON- be the 
      most fearless man -PRON- have ever know . -PRON- order the drawbridge to be 
      pull up every night because -PRON- be the ancient custom of the old 
      house , and -PRON- like to keep the old way up . 

      Mr. Douglas seldom go to London or leave the village ; but on the day 
      before the crime -PRON- have be shop at Tunbridge Wells . -PRON- ( Ames ) 
      have observe some restlessness and excitement on the part of Mr. 
      Douglas that day ; for -PRON- have seem impatient and irritable , which 
      be unusual with -PRON- . -PRON- have not go to bed that night ; but be in 
      the pantry at the back of the house , put away the silver , when -PRON- 
      hear the bell re violently . -PRON- hear no shot ; but -PRON- be hardly 
      possible -PRON- would , as the pantry and kitchen be at the very back 
      of the house and there be several close door and a long passage 
      between . the housekeeper have come out of -PRON- room , attract by the 
      violent ringing of the bell . -PRON- have go to the front of the house 
      together . 

      as -PRON- reach the bottom of the stair -PRON- have see Mrs. Douglas 
      come down -PRON- . no , -PRON- be not hurrying ; -PRON- do not seem to -PRON- that 
      -PRON- be particularly agitate . just as -PRON- reach the bottom of the 
      stair Mr. Barker have rush out of the study . -PRON- have stop Mrs. 
      Douglas and beg -PRON- to go back . 

      " for God 's sake , go back to -PRON- room ! " -PRON- cry . " Poor Jack be dead ! 
      -PRON- can do nothing . for God 's sake , go back ! " 

      after some persuasion upon the stair Mrs. Douglas have go back . -PRON- 
      do not scream . -PRON- make no outcry whatever . Mrs. Allen , the 
      housekeeper , have take -PRON- upstairs and stay with -PRON- in the 
      bedroom . Ames and Mr. Barker have then return to the study , where 
      -PRON- have find everything exactly as the police have see -PRON- . the 
      candle be not light at that time ; but the lamp be burn . -PRON- have 
      look out of the window ; but the night be very dark and nothing 
      could be see or hear . -PRON- have then rush out into the hall , where 
      Ames have turn the windlass which lower the drawbridge . Mr. Barker 
      have then hurry off to get the police . 

      such , in -PRON- essential , be the evidence of the butler . 

      the account of Mrs. Allen , the housekeeper , be , so far as -PRON- go , a 
      corroboration of that of -PRON- fellow servant . the housekeeper 's room 
      be rather near to the front of the house than the pantry in which 
      ame have be work . -PRON- be prepare to go to bed when the loud 
      ringing of the bell have attract -PRON- attention . -PRON- be a little 
      hard of hear . perhaps that be why -PRON- have not hear the shot ; but 
      in any case the study be a long way off . -PRON- remember hear some 
      sound which -PRON- imagine to be the slamming of a door . that be a 
      good deal earlier -- half an hour at least before the ringing of the 
      bell . when Mr. Ames run to the front -PRON- go with -PRON- . -PRON- see Mr. 
      Barker , very pale and excited , come out of the study . -PRON- intercept 
      Mrs. Douglas , who be come down the stair . -PRON- entreat -PRON- to go 
      back , and -PRON- answer -PRON- , but what -PRON- say could not be hear . 

      " take -PRON- up ! stay with -PRON- ! " -PRON- have say to Mrs. Allen . 

      -PRON- have therefore take -PRON- to the bedroom , and endeavour to soothe 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be greatly excited , tremble all over , but make no other 
      attempt to go downstairs . -PRON- just sit in -PRON- dressing gown by -PRON- 
      bedroom fire , with -PRON- head sink in -PRON- hand . Mrs. Allen stay with 
      -PRON- most of the night . as to the other servant , -PRON- have all go to 
      bed , and the alarm do not reach -PRON- until just before the police 
      arrive . -PRON- sleep at the extreme back of the house , and could not 
      possibly have hear anything . 

      so far the housekeeper could add nothing on cross - examination save 
      lamentation and expression of amazement . 

      Cecil Barker succeed Mrs. Allen as a witness . as to the occurrence 
      of the night before , -PRON- have very little to add to what -PRON- have already 
      tell the police . personally , -PRON- be convince that the murderer have 
      escape by the window . the bloodstain be conclusive , in -PRON- opinion , 
      on that point . besides , as the bridge be up , there be no other 
      possible way of escape . -PRON- could not explain what have become of the 
      assassin or why -PRON- have not take -PRON- bicycle , if -PRON- be indeed -PRON- . 
      -PRON- could not possibly have be drown in the moat , which be at no 
      place more than three foot deep . 

      in -PRON- own mind -PRON- have a very definite theory about the murder . 
      Douglas be a reticent man , and there be some chapter in -PRON- life 
      of which -PRON- never speak . -PRON- have emigrate to America when -PRON- be a 
      very young man . -PRON- have prosper well , and Barker have first meet -PRON- 
      in California , where -PRON- have become partner in a successful mining 
      claim at a place call Benito Canyon . -PRON- have do very well ; but 
      Douglas have suddenly sell out and start for England . -PRON- be a 
      widower at that time . Barker have afterwards realize -PRON- money and 
      come to live in London . thus -PRON- have renew -PRON- friendship . 

      Douglas have give -PRON- the impression that some danger be hang 
      over -PRON- head , and -PRON- have always look upon -PRON- sudden departure 
      from California , and also -PRON- rent a house in so quiet a place in 
      England , as be connect with this peril . -PRON- imagine that some 
      secret society , some implacable organization , be on Douglas 's track , 
      which would never rest until -PRON- kill -PRON- . some remark of -PRON- have 
      give -PRON- this idea ; though -PRON- have never tell -PRON- what the society 
      be , nor how -PRON- have come to offend -PRON- . -PRON- could only suppose that the 
      legend upon the placard have some reference to this secret society . 

      " how long be -PRON- with Douglas in California ? " ask Inspector 
      MacDonald . 

      " five year altogether . " 

      " -PRON- be a bachelor , -PRON- say ? " 

      " a widower . " 

      " have -PRON- ever hear where -PRON- first wife come from ? " 

      " no , -PRON- remember -PRON- saying that -PRON- be of german extraction , and -PRON- 
      have see -PRON- portrait . -PRON- be a very beautiful woman . -PRON- die of 
      typhoid the year before -PRON- meet -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- do not associate -PRON- past with any particular part of America ? " 

      " -PRON- have hear -PRON- talk of Chicago . -PRON- know that city well and have 
      work there . -PRON- have hear -PRON- talk of the coal and iron district . 
      -PRON- have travel a good deal in -PRON- time . " 

      " be -PRON- a politician ? have this secret society to do with politic ? " 

      " no , -PRON- care nothing about politic . " 

      " -PRON- have no reason to think -PRON- be criminal ? " 

      " on the contrary , -PRON- never meet a straight man in -PRON- life . " 

      " be there anything curious about -PRON- life in California ? " 

      " -PRON- like best to stay and to work at -PRON- claim in the mountain . -PRON- 
      would never go where other man be if -PRON- could help -PRON- . that be why -PRON- 
      first think that someone be after -PRON- . then when -PRON- leave so 
      suddenly for Europe -PRON- make sure that -PRON- be so . -PRON- believe that -PRON- have 
      a warning of some sort . within a week of -PRON- leave half a dozen man 
      be inquire for -PRON- . " 

      " what sort of man ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be a mighty hard - looking crowd . -PRON- come up to the 
      claim and want to know where -PRON- be . -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be go 
      to Europe and that -PRON- do not know where to find -PRON- . -PRON- mean -PRON- 
      no good -- -PRON- be easy to see that . " 

      " be these man Americans -- Californians ? " 

      " well , -PRON- do not know about Californians . -PRON- be Americans , all 
      right . but -PRON- be not miner . -PRON- do not know what -PRON- be , and be 
      very glad to see -PRON- back . " 

      " that be six year ago ? " 

      " Nearer seven . " 

      " and then -PRON- be together five year in California , so that this 
      business date back not less than eleven year at the least ? " 

      " that be so . " 

      " -PRON- must be a very serious feud that would be keep up with such 
      earnestness for as long as that . -PRON- would be no light thing that 
      would give rise to -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- shadow -PRON- whole life . -PRON- be never quite out of -PRON- 
      mind . " 

      " but if a man have a danger hang over -PRON- , and know what -PRON- be , 
      do not -PRON- think -PRON- would turn to the police for protection ? " 

      " maybe -PRON- be some danger that -PRON- could not be protect against . 
      there be one thing -PRON- should know . -PRON- always go about armed . -PRON- 
      revolver be never out of -PRON- pocket . but , by bad luck , -PRON- be in -PRON- 
      dress gown and have leave -PRON- in the bedroom last night . once the 
      bridge be up , -PRON- guess -PRON- think -PRON- be safe . " 

      " -PRON- should like these date a little clear , " say MacDonald . " -PRON- be 
      quite six year since Douglas leave California . -PRON- follow -PRON- next 
      year , do -PRON- not ? " 

      " that be so . " 

      " and -PRON- have be marry five year . -PRON- must have return about the 
      time of -PRON- marriage . " 

      " about a month before . -PRON- be -PRON- good man . " 

      " do -PRON- know Mrs. Douglas before -PRON- marriage ? " 

      " no , -PRON- do not . -PRON- have be away from England for ten year . " 

      " but -PRON- have see a good deal of -PRON- since . " 

      Barker look sternly at the detective . " -PRON- have see a good deal of 
      -PRON- since , " -PRON- answer . " if -PRON- have see -PRON- , -PRON- be because -PRON- 
      can not visit a man without know -PRON- wife . if -PRON- imagine there be 
      any connection-- " 

      " -PRON- imagine nothing , Mr. Barker . -PRON- be bind to make every inquiry 
      which can bear upon the case . but -PRON- mean no offense . " 

      " some inquiry be offensive , " Barker answer angrily . 

      " -PRON- be only the fact that -PRON- want . -PRON- be in -PRON- interest and 
      everyone 's interest that -PRON- should be clear up . do Mr. Douglas 
      entirely approve -PRON- friendship with -PRON- wife ? " 

      Barker grow paler , and -PRON- great , strong hand be clasp 
      convulsively together . " -PRON- have no right to ask such question ! " -PRON- 
      cry . " what have this to do with the matter -PRON- be investigate ? " 

      " -PRON- must repeat the question . " 

      " well , -PRON- refuse to answer . " 

      " -PRON- can refuse to answer ; but -PRON- must be aware that -PRON- refusal be 
      in -PRON- an answer , for -PRON- would not refuse if -PRON- have not 
      something to conceal . " 

      Barker stand for a moment with -PRON- face set grimly and -PRON- strong 
      black eyebrow draw low in intense thought . then -PRON- look up with a 
      smile . " well , -PRON- guess -PRON- gentleman be only do -PRON- clear duty 
      after all , and -PRON- have no right to stand in the way of -PRON- . -PRON- would only 
      ask -PRON- not to worry Mrs. Douglas over this matter ; for -PRON- have 
      enough upon -PRON- just now . -PRON- may tell -PRON- that poor Douglas have just 
      one fault in the world , and that be -PRON- jealousy . -PRON- be fond of 
      -PRON- -- no man could be fonder of a friend . and -PRON- be devoted to -PRON- 
      wife . -PRON- love -PRON- to come here , and be forever send for -PRON- . and 
      yet if -PRON- wife and -PRON- talk together or there seem any sympathy 
      between -PRON- , a kind of wave of jealousy would pass over -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      would be off the handle and say the wild thing in a moment . 
      more than once -PRON- have swear off come for that reason , and then -PRON- 
      would write -PRON- such penitent , implore letter that -PRON- just have to . 
      but -PRON- can take -PRON- from -PRON- , gentleman , if -PRON- be -PRON- last word , that 
      no man ever have a more loving , faithful wife -- and -PRON- can say also no 
      friend could be more loyal than -PRON- ! " 

      -PRON- be speak with fervour and feeling , and yet Inspector MacDonald 
      could not dismiss the subject . 

      " -PRON- be aware , " say -PRON- , " that the dead man 's wedding ring have be 
      take from -PRON- finger ? " 

      " so -PRON- appear , " say Barker . 

      " what do -PRON- mean by ' appear ' ? -PRON- know -PRON- as a fact . " 

      the man seem confused and undecided . " when -PRON- say ' appear ' -PRON- mean 
      that -PRON- be conceivable that -PRON- have -PRON- take off the ring . " 

      " the mere fact that the ring should be absent , whoever may have 
      remove -PRON- , would suggest to anyone 's mind , would -PRON- not , that the 
      marriage and the tragedy be connect ? " 

      Barker shrug -PRON- broad shoulder . " -PRON- can not profess to say what -PRON- 
      mean . " -PRON- answer . " but if -PRON- mean to hint that -PRON- could reflect 
      in any way upon this lady 's honour"--his eye blaze for an instant , 
      and then with an evident effort -PRON- get a grip upon -PRON- own 
      emotions--"well , -PRON- be on the wrong track , that be all . " 

      " -PRON- do not know that -PRON- have anything else to ask -PRON- at present , " say 
      MacDonald , coldly . 

      " there be one small point , " remark Sherlock Holmes . " when -PRON- 
      enter the room there be only a candle light on the table , be 
      there not ? " 

      " yes , that be so . " 

      " by -PRON- light -PRON- see that some terrible incident have occur ? " 

      " exactly . " 

      " -PRON- at once rang for help ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " and -PRON- arrive very speedily ? " 

      " within a minute or so . " 

      " and yet when -PRON- arrive -PRON- find that the candle be out and 
      that the lamp have be light . that seem very remarkable . " 

      again Barker show some sign of indecision . " -PRON- do not see that -PRON- 
      be remarkable , Mr. Holmes , " -PRON- answer after a pause . " the candle 
      throw a very bad light . -PRON- first thought be to get a well one . the 
      lamp be on the table ; so -PRON- light -PRON- . " 

      " and blow out the candle ? " 

      " exactly . " 

      Holmes ask no further question , and Barker , with a deliberate look 
      from one to the other of -PRON- , which have , as -PRON- seem to -PRON- , something 
      of defiance in -PRON- , turn and leave the room . 

      Inspector MacDonald have send up a note to the effect that -PRON- would 
      wait upon Mrs. Douglas in -PRON- room ; but -PRON- have reply that -PRON- 
      would meet -PRON- in the dining room . -PRON- enter now , a tall and 
      beautiful woman of thirty , reserve and self - possess to a 
      remarkable degree , very different from the tragic and distract 
      figure -PRON- have picture . -PRON- be true that -PRON- face be pale and draw , 
      like that of one who have endure a great shock ; but -PRON- manner be 
      compose , and the finely mould hand which -PRON- rest upon the edge 
      of the table be as steady as -PRON- own . -PRON- sad , appealing eye 
      travel from one to the other of -PRON- with a curiously inquisitive 
      expression . that question gaze transform -PRON- suddenly into 
      abrupt speech . 

      " have -PRON- find anything out yet ? " -PRON- ask . 

      be -PRON- -PRON- imagination that there be an undertone of fear rather than 
      of hope in the question ? 

      " -PRON- have take every possible step , Mrs. Douglas , " say the 
      inspector . " -PRON- may rest assure that nothing will be neglect . " 

      " spare no money , " -PRON- say in a dead , even tone . " -PRON- be -PRON- desire 
      that every possible effort should be make . " 

      " perhaps -PRON- can tell -PRON- something which may throw some light upon 
      the matter . " 

      " -PRON- fear not ; but all -PRON- know be at -PRON- service . " 

      " -PRON- have hear from Mr. Cecil Barker that -PRON- do not actually 
      see -- that -PRON- be never in the room where the tragedy occur ? " 

      " no , -PRON- turn -PRON- back upon the stair . -PRON- beg -PRON- to return to -PRON- 
      room . " 

      " quite so . -PRON- have hear the shot , and -PRON- have at once come down . " 

      " -PRON- put on -PRON- dressing gown and then come down . " 

      " how long be -PRON- after hear the shot that -PRON- be stop on the 
      stair by Mr. Barker ? " 

      " -PRON- may have be a couple of minute . -PRON- be so hard to reckon time 
      at such a moment . -PRON- implore -PRON- not to go on . -PRON- assure -PRON- that -PRON- 
      could do nothing . then Mrs. Allen , the housekeeper , lead -PRON- upstairs 
      again . -PRON- be all like some dreadful dream . " 

      " Can -PRON- give -PRON- any idea how long -PRON- husband have be downstairs 
      before -PRON- hear the shot ? " 

      " no , -PRON- can not say . -PRON- go from -PRON- dressing room , and -PRON- do not hear 
      -PRON- go . -PRON- do the round of the house every night , for -PRON- be nervous 
      of fire . -PRON- be the only thing that -PRON- have ever know -PRON- nervous of . " 

      " that be just the point which -PRON- want to come to , Mrs. Douglas . -PRON- 
      have know -PRON- husband only in England , have -PRON- not ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- have be marry five year . " 

      " have -PRON- hear -PRON- speak of anything which occur in America and 
      may bring some danger upon -PRON- ? " 

      Mrs. Douglas think earnestly before -PRON- answer . " yes . " -PRON- say 
      at last , " -PRON- have always feel that there be a danger hang over 
      -PRON- . -PRON- refuse to discuss -PRON- with -PRON- . -PRON- be not from want of 
      confidence in -PRON- -- there be the most complete love and confidence 
      between -PRON- -- but -PRON- be out of -PRON- desire to keep all alarm away from 
      -PRON- . -PRON- think -PRON- should brood over -PRON- if -PRON- know all , and so -PRON- be 
      silent . " 

      " how do -PRON- know -PRON- , then ? " 

      Mrs. Douglas 's face light with a quick smile . " Can a husband ever carry 
      about a secret all -PRON- life and a woman who love -PRON- have no 
      suspicion of -PRON- ? -PRON- know -PRON- by -PRON- refusal to talk about some episode 
      in -PRON- american life . -PRON- know -PRON- by certain precaution -PRON- take . -PRON- 
      know -PRON- by certain word -PRON- let fall . -PRON- know -PRON- by the way -PRON- look 
      at unexpected stranger . -PRON- be perfectly certain that -PRON- have some 
      powerful enemy , that -PRON- believe -PRON- be on -PRON- track , and that 
      -PRON- be always on -PRON- guard against -PRON- . -PRON- be so sure of -PRON- that for 
      year -PRON- have be terrify if ever -PRON- come home later than be 
      expect . " 

      " may -PRON- ask , " ask Holmes , " what the word be which attract 
      -PRON- attention ? " 

      " the Valley of Fear , " the lady answer . " that be an expression -PRON- 
      have use when -PRON- question -PRON- . ' -PRON- have be in the Valley of Fear . -PRON- 
      be not out of -PRON- yet . '--'Are -PRON- never to get out of the Valley of 
      fear ? ' -PRON- have ask -PRON- when -PRON- have see -PRON- more serious than usual . 
      ' sometimes -PRON- think that -PRON- never shall , ' -PRON- have answer . " 

      " surely -PRON- ask -PRON- what -PRON- mean by the Valley of Fear ? " 

      " -PRON- do ; but -PRON- face would become very grave and -PRON- would shake -PRON- 
      head . ' -PRON- be bad enough that one of -PRON- should have be in -PRON- 
      shadow , ' -PRON- say . ' please God -PRON- shall never fall upon -PRON- ! ' -PRON- be 
      some real valley in which -PRON- have live and in which something 
      terrible have occur to -PRON- , of that -PRON- be certain ; but -PRON- can tell 
      -PRON- no more . " 

      " and -PRON- never mention any name ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- be delirious with fever once when -PRON- have -PRON- hunting 
      accident three year ago . then -PRON- remember that there be a name that 
      come continually to -PRON- lip . -PRON- speak -PRON- with anger and a sort of 
      horror . McGinty be the name -- Bodymaster McGinty . -PRON- ask -PRON- when -PRON- 
      recover who Bodymaster McGinty be , and whose body -PRON- be master 
      of . ' never of -PRON- , thank God ! ' -PRON- answer with a laugh , and that 
      be all -PRON- could get from -PRON- . but there be a connection between 
      Bodymaster McGinty and the Valley of Fear . " 

      " there be one other point , " say Inspector MacDonald . " -PRON- meet Mr. 
      Douglas in a boarding house in London , do -PRON- not , and become 
      engage to -PRON- there ? be there any romance , anything secret or 
      mysterious , about the wedding ? " 

      " there be romance . there be always romance . there be nothing 
      mysterious . " 

      " -PRON- have no rival ? " 

      " no , -PRON- be quite free . " 

      " -PRON- have hear , no doubt , that -PRON- wedding ring have be take . do 
      that suggest anything to -PRON- ? suppose that some enemy of -PRON- old life 
      have track -PRON- down and commit this crime , what possible reason 
      could -PRON- have for take -PRON- wedding ring ? " 

      for an instant -PRON- could have swear that the faint shadow of a smile 
      flicker over the woman 's lip . 

      " -PRON- really can not tell , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- be certainly a most 
      extraordinary thing . " 

      " well , -PRON- will not detain -PRON- any longer , and -PRON- be sorry to have 
      put -PRON- to this trouble at such a time , " say the inspector . " there 
      be some other point , no doubt ; but -PRON- can refer to -PRON- as -PRON- 
      arise . " 

      -PRON- rise , and -PRON- be again conscious of that quick , question glance 
      with which -PRON- have just survey -PRON- . " what impression have -PRON- evidence 
      make upon -PRON- ? " the question may as well have be speak . then , 
      with a bow , -PRON- sweep from the room . 

      " -PRON- be a beautiful woman -- a very beautiful woman , " say MacDonald 
      thoughtfully , after the door have close behind -PRON- . " this man Barker 
      have certainly be down here a good deal . -PRON- be a man who may be 
      attractive to a woman . -PRON- admit that the dead man be jealous , and 
      maybe -PRON- know best -PRON- what cause -PRON- have for jealousy . then 
      there be that wedding ring . -PRON- can not get past that . the man who tear 
      a wedding ring off a dead man' -- what do -PRON- say to -PRON- , Mr. Holmes ? " 

      -PRON- friend have sit with -PRON- head upon -PRON- hand , sink in the deep 
      think . now -PRON- rise and ring the bell . " ame , " -PRON- say , when the 
      butler enter , " where be Mr. Cecil Barker now ? " 

      " -PRON- will see , sir . " 

      -PRON- come back in a moment to say that Barker be in the garden . 

      " Can -PRON- remember , Ames , what Mr. Barker have on -PRON- foot last night 
      when -PRON- join -PRON- in the study ? " 

      " yes , Mr. Holmes . -PRON- have a pair of bedroom slipper . -PRON- bring -PRON- 
      -PRON- boot when -PRON- go for the police . " 

      " where be the slipper now ? " 

      " -PRON- be still under the chair in the hall . " 

      " very good , Ames . -PRON- be , of course , important for -PRON- to know which 
      track may be Mr. Barker 's and which from outside . " 

      " yes , sir . -PRON- may say that -PRON- notice that the slipper be stain 
      with blood -- so indeed be -PRON- own . " 

      " that be natural enough , consider the condition of the room . very 
      good , Ames . -PRON- will ring if -PRON- want -PRON- . " 

      a few minute later -PRON- be in the study . Holmes have bring with -PRON- 
      the carpet slipper from the hall . as Ames have observe , the sol of 
      both be dark with blood . 

      " strange ! " murmured Holmes , as -PRON- stand in the light of the window 
      and examine -PRON- minutely . " very strange indeed ! " 

      stoop with one of -PRON- quick feline pounce , -PRON- place the slipper 
      upon the blood mark on the sill . -PRON- exactly correspond . -PRON- smile 
      in silence at -PRON- colleague . 

      the inspector be transfigure with excitement . -PRON- native accent 
      rattle like a stick upon railing . 

      " man , " -PRON- cry , " there be not a doubt of -PRON- ! Barker have just mark 
      the window -PRON- . -PRON- be a good deal broad than any bootmark . -PRON- 
      mind that -PRON- say -PRON- be a splay - foot , and here be the explanation . 
      but what be the game , Mr. Holmes -- what be the game ? " 

      " ay , what be the game ? " -PRON- friend repeat thoughtfully . 

      White Mason chuckle and rub -PRON- fat hand together in -PRON- 
      professional satisfaction . " -PRON- say -PRON- be a snorter ! " -PRON- cry . " and 
      a real snorter -PRON- be ! " 





           CHAPTER VI 
           a dawn light 


      the three detective have many matter of detail into which to 
      inquire ; so -PRON- return alone to -PRON- modest quarter at the village 
      inn . but before do so -PRON- take a stroll in the curious old - world 
      garden which flank the house . row of very ancient yew tree cut 
      into strange design gird -PRON- round . Inside be a beautiful stretch 
      of lawn with an old sundial in the middle , the whole effect so 
      soothing and restful that -PRON- be welcome to -PRON- somewhat jangled 
      nerve . 

      in that deeply peaceful atmosphere one could forget , or remember only 
      as some fantastic nightmare , that darken study with the sprawling , 
      bloodstained figure on the floor . and yet , as -PRON- stroll round -PRON- and 
      try to steep -PRON- soul in -PRON- gentle balm , a strange incident 
      occur , which bring -PRON- back to the tragedy and leave a sinister 
      impression in -PRON- mind . 

      -PRON- have say that a decoration of yew tree circle the garden . at the 
      end farth from the house -PRON- thicken into a continuous hedge . 
      on the other side of this hedge , conceal from the eye of anyone 
      approach from the direction of the house , there be a stone seat . 
      as -PRON- approach the spot -PRON- be aware of voice , some remark in the 
      deep tone of a man , answer by a little ripple of feminine 
      laughter . 

      an instant later -PRON- have come round the end of the hedge and -PRON- eye 
      light upon Mrs. Douglas and the man Barker before -PRON- be aware of -PRON- 
      presence . -PRON- appearance give -PRON- a shock . in the dining - room -PRON- have 
      be demure and discreet . now all pretense of grief have pass away 
      from -PRON- . -PRON- eye shine with the joy of living , and -PRON- face still 
      quiver with amusement at some remark of -PRON- companion . -PRON- sit 
      forward , -PRON- hand clasped and -PRON- forearm on -PRON- knee , with an 
      answer smile upon -PRON- bold , handsome face . in an instant -- but -PRON- 
      be just one instant too late -- -PRON- resume -PRON- solemn mask as -PRON- 
      figure come into view . a hurried word or two pass between -PRON- , and 
      then Barker rise and come towards -PRON- . 

      " excuse -PRON- , sir , " say -PRON- , " but be -PRON- address Dr. Watson ? " 

      -PRON- bow with a coldness which show , -PRON- dare say , very plainly the 
      impression which have be produce upon -PRON- mind . 

      " -PRON- think that -PRON- be probably -PRON- , as -PRON- friendship with Mr. 
      Sherlock Holmes be so well known . Would -PRON- mind come over and 
      speak to Mrs. Douglas for one instant ? " 

      -PRON- follow -PRON- with a dour face . very clearly -PRON- could see in -PRON- 
      mind 's eye that shatter figure on the floor . here within a few 
      hour of the tragedy be -PRON- wife and -PRON- near friend laugh 
      together behind a bush in the garden which have be -PRON- . -PRON- greet 
      the lady with reserve . -PRON- have grieve with -PRON- grief in the 
      dining - room . now -PRON- meet -PRON- appealing gaze with an unresponsive eye . 

      " -PRON- fear that -PRON- think -PRON- callous and hard - hearted , " say -PRON- . 

      -PRON- shrug -PRON- shoulder . " -PRON- be no business of mine , " say I. 

      " perhaps some day -PRON- will do -PRON- justice . if -PRON- only realized-- " 

      " there be no need why Dr. Watson should realize , " say Barker 
      quickly . " as -PRON- have -PRON- say , -PRON- be no possible business of -PRON- . " 

      " exactly , " say -PRON- , " and so -PRON- will beg leave to resume -PRON- walk . " 

      " one moment , Dr. Watson , " cry the woman in a plead voice . " there 
      be one question which -PRON- can answer with more authority than anyone 
      else in the world , and -PRON- may make a very great difference to -PRON- . -PRON- 
      know Mr. Holmes and -PRON- relation with the police better than anyone 
      else can . suppose that a matter be bring confidentially to -PRON- 
      knowledge , be -PRON- absolutely necessary that -PRON- should pass -PRON- on to 
      the detective ? " 

      " yes , that be -PRON- , " say Barker eagerly . " be -PRON- on -PRON- own or be -PRON- 
      entirely in with -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- really do not know that -PRON- should be justify in discuss such a 
      point . " 

      " -PRON- beg -- -PRON- implore that -PRON- will , Dr. Watson ! -PRON- assure -PRON- that -PRON- 
      will be help -PRON- -- help -PRON- greatly if -PRON- will guide -PRON- on that 
      point . " 

      there be such a ring of sincerity in the woman 's voice that for the 
      instant -PRON- forget all about -PRON- levity and be move only to do -PRON- 
      will . 

      " Mr. Holmes be an independent investigator , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- be -PRON- own 
      master , and would act as -PRON- own judgment direct . at the same time , 
      -PRON- would naturally feel loyalty towards the official who be 
      work on the same case , and -PRON- would not conceal from -PRON- anything 
      which would help -PRON- in bring a criminal to justice . beyond this 
      -PRON- can say nothing , and -PRON- would refer -PRON- to Mr. Holmes -PRON- if -PRON- 
      want full information . " 

      so say -PRON- raise -PRON- hat and go upon -PRON- way , leave -PRON- still 
      seat behind that conceal hedge . -PRON- look back as -PRON- round the 
      far end of -PRON- , and see that -PRON- be still talk very earnestly 
      together , and , as -PRON- be gaze after -PRON- , -PRON- be clear that -PRON- be 
      -PRON- interview that be the subject of -PRON- debate . 

      " -PRON- wish none of -PRON- confidence , " say Holmes , when -PRON- report to 
      -PRON- what have occur . -PRON- have spend the whole afternoon at the Manor 
      House in consultation with -PRON- two colleague , and return about 
      five with a ravenous appetite for a high tea which -PRON- have order for 
      -PRON- . " no confidence , Watson ; for -PRON- be mighty awkward if -PRON- come 
      to an arrest for conspiracy and murder . " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- will come to that ? " 

      -PRON- be in -PRON- most cheerful and debonair humour . " -PRON- dear watson , 
      when -PRON- have exterminate that fourth egg -PRON- shall be ready to put -PRON- 
      in touch with the whole situation . -PRON- do not say that -PRON- have fathom 
      -PRON- -- far from -PRON- -- but when -PRON- have trace the miss dumb - bell-- " 

      " the dumb - bell ! " 

      " dear -PRON- , Watson , be -PRON- possible that -PRON- have not penetrate the 
      fact that the case hang upon the miss dumb - bell ? well , well , -PRON- 
      need not be downcast ; for between -PRON- -PRON- do not think that either 
      Inspector Mac or the excellent local practitioner have grasp the 
      overwhelming importance of this incident . one dumb - bell , Watson ! 
      consider an athlete with one dumb - bell ! picture to -PRON- the 
      unilateral development , the imminent danger of a spinal curvature . 
      Shocking , Watson , shocking ! " 

      -PRON- sit with -PRON- mouth full of toast and -PRON- eye sparkle with 
      mischief , watch -PRON- intellectual entanglement . the mere sight of 
      -PRON- excellent appetite be an assurance of success , for -PRON- have very 
      clear recollection of day and night without a thought of food , 
      when -PRON- baffle mind have chafe before some problem while -PRON- thin , 
      eager feature become more attenuated with the asceticism of complete 
      mental concentration . finally -PRON- light -PRON- pipe , and sit in the 
      inglenook of the old village inn -PRON- talk slowly and at random about 
      -PRON- case , rather as one who think aloud than as one who make a 
      consider statement . 

      " a lie , Watson -- a great , big , thumping , obtrusive , uncompromising 
      lie -- that be what meet -PRON- on the threshold ! there be -PRON- start 
      point . the whole story tell by Barker be a lie . but Barker 's story be 
      corroborate by Mrs. Douglas . therefore -PRON- be lie also . -PRON- be 
      both lie , and in a conspiracy . so now -PRON- have the clear problem . 
      why be -PRON- lie , and what be the truth which -PRON- be try so 
      hard to conceal ? let -PRON- try , Watson , -PRON- and -PRON- , if -PRON- can get behind 
      the lie and reconstruct the truth . 

      " how do -PRON- know that -PRON- be lie ? because -PRON- be a clumsy 
      fabrication which simply could not be true . consider ! accord to 
      the story give to -PRON- , the assassin have less than a minute after the 
      murder have be commit to take that ring , which be under another 
      ring , from the dead man 's finger , to replace the other ring -- a thing 
      which -PRON- would surely never have do -- and to put that singular card 
      beside -PRON- victim . -PRON- say that this be obviously impossible . 

      " -PRON- may argue -- but -PRON- have too much respect for -PRON- judgment , 
      Watson , to think that -PRON- will do so -- that the ring may have be 
      take before the man be kill . the fact that the candle have be 
      light only a short time show that there have be no lengthy interview . 
      be Douglas , from what -PRON- hear of -PRON- fearless character , a man who 
      would be likely to give up -PRON- wedding ring at such short notice , or 
      could -PRON- conceive of -PRON- give -PRON- up at all ? no , no , Watson , the 
      assassin be alone with the dead man for some time with the lamp lit . 
      of that -PRON- have no doubt at all . 

      " but the gunshot be apparently the cause of death . therefore the 
      shot must have be fire some time earlier than -PRON- be tell . but 
      there could be no mistake about such a matter as that . -PRON- be in the 
      presence , therefore , of a deliberate conspiracy upon the part of the 
      two people who hear the gunshot -- of the man Barker and of the woman 
      Douglas . when on the top of this -PRON- be able to show that the blood 
      mark on the windowsill be deliberately place there by Barker , in 
      order to give a false clue to the police , -PRON- will admit that the 
      case grow dark against -PRON- . 

      " now -PRON- have to ask -PRON- at what hour the murder actually do 
      occur . up to half - past ten the servant be move about the house ; 
      so -PRON- be certainly not before that time . at a quarter to eleven -PRON- 
      have all go to -PRON- room with the exception of Ames , who be in 
      the pantry . -PRON- have be try some experiment after -PRON- leave -PRON- 
      this afternoon , and -PRON- find that no noise which MacDonald can make in 
      the study can penetrate to -PRON- in the pantry when the door be all 
      shut . 

      " -PRON- be otherwise , however , from the housekeeper 's room . -PRON- be not so 
      far down the corridor , and from -PRON- -PRON- could vaguely hear a voice when 
      -PRON- be very loudly raise . the sound from a shotgun be to some extent 
      muffle when the discharge be at very close range , as -PRON- undoubtedly 
      be in this instance . -PRON- would not be very loud , and yet in the 
      silence of the night -PRON- should have easily penetrate to Mrs. Allen 's 
      room . -PRON- be , as -PRON- have tell -PRON- , somewhat deaf ; but none the less 
      -PRON- mention in -PRON- evidence that -PRON- do hear something like a door 
      slam half an hour before the alarm be give . half an hour before 
      the alarm be give would be a quarter to eleven . -PRON- have no doubt 
      that what -PRON- hear be the report of the gun , and that this be the 
      real instant of the murder . 

      " if this be so , -PRON- have now to determine what Barker and Mrs. 
      Douglas , presume that -PRON- be not the actual murderer , could have 
      be do from quarter to eleven , when the sound of the shot bring 
      -PRON- down , until quarter past eleven , when -PRON- ring the bell and 
      summon the servant . what be -PRON- do , and why do -PRON- not 
      instantly give the alarm ? that be the question which face -PRON- , and 
      when -PRON- have be answer -PRON- shall surely have go some way to solve 
      -PRON- problem . " 

      " -PRON- be convince -PRON- , " say -PRON- , " that there be an understanding 
      between those two people . -PRON- must be a heartless creature to sit 
      laugh at some jest within a few hour of -PRON- husband 's murder . " 

      " exactly . -PRON- do not shine as a wife even in -PRON- own account of 
      what occur . -PRON- be not a whole - souled admirer of womankind , as -PRON- 
      be aware , Watson , but -PRON- experience of life have teach -PRON- that there 
      be few wife , have any regard for -PRON- husband , who would let 
      any man 's spoken word stand between -PRON- and that husband 's dead 
      body . Should -PRON- ever marry , Watson , -PRON- should hope to inspire -PRON- wife 
      with some feeling which would prevent -PRON- from be walk off by a 
      housekeeper when -PRON- corpse be lie within a few yard of -PRON- . -PRON- 
      be badly stage - manage ; for even the raw investigator must be 
      strike by the absence of the usual feminine ululation . if there have 
      be nothing else , this incident alone would have suggest a 
      prearrange conspiracy to -PRON- mind . " 

      " -PRON- think then , definitely , that Barker and Mrs. Douglas be guilty 
      of the murder ? " 

      " there be an appalling directness about -PRON- question , Watson , " say 
      Holmes , shake -PRON- pipe at -PRON- . " -PRON- come at -PRON- like bullet . if -PRON- 
      put -PRON- that Mrs. Douglas and Barker know the truth about the murder , 
      and be conspire to conceal -PRON- , then -PRON- can give -PRON- a whole - souled 
      answer . -PRON- be sure -PRON- do . but -PRON- more deadly proposition be not so 
      clear . let -PRON- for a moment consider the difficulty which stand in 
      the way . 

      " -PRON- will suppose that this couple be unite by the bond of a guilty 
      love , and that -PRON- have determine to get rid of the man who stand 
      between -PRON- . -PRON- be a large supposition ; for discreet inquiry among 
      servant and other have fail to corroborate -PRON- in any way . on the 
      contrary , there be a good deal of evidence that the Douglases be 
      very attach to each other . " 

      " that , -PRON- be sure , can not -PRON- true . " say -PRON- , think of the beautiful 
      smile face in the garden . 

      " well at least -PRON- give that impression . however , -PRON- will suppose 
      that -PRON- be an extraordinarily astute couple , who deceive everyone 
      upon this point , and conspire to murder the husband . -PRON- happen to be 
      a man over whose head some danger hangs-- " 

      " -PRON- have only -PRON- word for that . " 

      Holmes look thoughtful . " -PRON- see , Watson . -PRON- be sketch out a 
      theory by which everything -PRON- say from the beginning be false . 
      accord to -PRON- idea , there be never any hide menace , or secret 
      society , or Valley of Fear , or Boss MacSomebody , or anything else . 
      well , that be a good sweeping generalization . let -PRON- see what that 
      bring -PRON- to . -PRON- invent this theory to account for the crime . -PRON- 
      then play up to the idea by leave this bicycle in the park as proof 
      of the existence of some outsider . the stain on the windowsill 
      convey the same idea . so do the card on the body , which may have 
      be prepare in the house . that all fit into -PRON- hypothesis , 
      Watson . but now -PRON- come on the nasty , angular , uncompromising bit 
      which will not slip into -PRON- place . why a cut - off shotgun of all 
      weapon -- and an american one at that ? how could -PRON- be so sure that 
      the sound of -PRON- would not bring someone on to -PRON- ? -PRON- be a mere 
      chance as -PRON- be that Mrs. Allen do not start out to inquire for the 
      slam door . why do -PRON- guilty couple do all this , Watson ? " 

      " -PRON- confess that -PRON- can not explain -PRON- . " 

      " then again , if a woman and -PRON- lover conspire to murder a husband , 
      be -PRON- go to advertise -PRON- guilt by ostentatiously remove 
      -PRON- wedding ring after -PRON- death ? do that strike -PRON- as very 
      probable , Watson ? " 

      " no , -PRON- do not . " 

      " and once again , if the thought of leave a bicycle conceal 
      outside have occur to -PRON- , would -PRON- really have seem worth do 
      when the dull detective would naturally say this be an obvious 
      blind , as the bicycle be the first thing which the fugitive need in 
      order to make -PRON- escape . " 

      " -PRON- can conceive of no explanation . " 

      " and yet there should be no combination of event for which the wit 
      of man can not conceive an explanation . simply as a mental exercise , 
      without any assertion that -PRON- be true , let -PRON- indicate a possible 
      line of thought . -PRON- be , -PRON- admit , mere imagination ; but how often be 
      imagination the mother of truth ? 

      " -PRON- will suppose that there be a guilty secret , a really shameful 
      secret in the life of this man Douglas . this lead to -PRON- murder by 
      someone who be , -PRON- will suppose , an avenger , someone from outside . 
      this avenger , for some reason which -PRON- confess -PRON- be still at a loss to 
      explain , take the dead man 's wedding ring . the vendetta may 
      conceivably date back to the man 's first marriage , and the ring be 
      take for some such reason . 

      " before this avenger get away , Barker and the wife have reach the 
      room . the assassin convince -PRON- that any attempt to arrest -PRON- 
      would lead to the publication of some hideous scandal . -PRON- be 
      convert to this idea , and prefer to let -PRON- go . for this purpose 
      -PRON- probably lower the bridge , which can be do quite 
      noiselessly , and then raise -PRON- again . -PRON- make -PRON- escape , and for 
      some reason think that -PRON- could do so more safely on foot than on 
      the bicycle . -PRON- therefore leave -PRON- machine where -PRON- would not be 
      discover until -PRON- have get safely away . so far -PRON- be within the 
      bound of possibility , be -PRON- not ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be possible , no doubt , " say -PRON- , with some reserve . 

      " -PRON- have to remember , Watson , that whatever occur be certainly 
      something very extraordinary . well , now , to continue -PRON- 
      supposititious case , the couple -- not necessarily a guilty 
      couple -- realize after the murderer be go that -PRON- have place 
      -PRON- in a position in which -PRON- may be difficult for -PRON- to 
      prove that -PRON- do not -PRON- either do the deed or connive at 
      -PRON- . -PRON- rapidly and rather clumsily meet the situation . the mark be 
      put by Barker 's bloodstained slipper upon the window - sill to suggest 
      how the fugitive get away . -PRON- obviously be the two who must have 
      hear the sound of the gun ; so -PRON- give the alarm exactly as -PRON- 
      would have do , but a good half hour after the event . " 

      " and how do -PRON- propose to prove all this ? " 

      " well , if there be an outsider , -PRON- may be trace and take . that 
      would be the most effective of all proof . but if not -- well , the 
      resource of science be far from be exhaust . -PRON- think that an 
      evening alone in that study would help -PRON- much . " 

      " an evening alone ! " 

      " -PRON- propose to go up there presently . -PRON- have arrange -PRON- with the 
      estimable Ames , who be by no mean whole - hearted about Barker . -PRON- 
      shall sit in that room and see if -PRON- atmosphere bring -PRON- 
      inspiration . -PRON- be a believer in the genius loci . -PRON- smile , Friend 
      Watson . well , -PRON- shall see . by the way , -PRON- have that big umbrella of 
      your , have -PRON- not ? " 

      " -PRON- be here . " 

      " well , -PRON- will borrow that if -PRON- may . " 

      " certainly -- but what a wretched weapon ! if there be danger-- " 

      " nothing serious , -PRON- dear Watson , or -PRON- should certainly ask for -PRON- 
      assistance . but -PRON- will take the umbrella . at present -PRON- be only await 
      the return of -PRON- colleague from Tunbridge Wells , where -PRON- be at 
      present engage in try for a likely owner to the bicycle . " 

      -PRON- be nightfall before Inspector MacDonald and White Mason come back 
      from -PRON- expedition , and -PRON- arrive exultant , report a great 
      advance in -PRON- investigation . 

      " Man , -PRON- will admeet that -PRON- have -PRON- doubt if there be ever an 
      outsider , " say MacDonald , " but that be all past now . -PRON- have have the 
      bicycle identify , and -PRON- have a description of -PRON- man ; so that be a 
      long step on -PRON- journey . " 

      " -PRON- sound to -PRON- like the beginning of the end , " say Holmes . " -PRON- be 
      sure -PRON- congratulate -PRON- both with all -PRON- heart . " 

      " well , -PRON- start from the fact that Mr. Douglas have seem disturb 
      since the day before , when -PRON- have be at Tunbridge Wells . -PRON- be at 
      Tunbridge Wells then that -PRON- have become conscious of some danger . -PRON- 
      be clear , therefore , that if a man have come over with a bicycle -PRON- 
      be from Tunbridge Wells that -PRON- may be expect to have come . -PRON- 
      take the bicycle over with -PRON- and show -PRON- at the hotel . -PRON- be 
      identify at once by the manager of the Eagle Commercial as 
      belong to a man name Hargrave , who have take a room there two 
      day before . this bicycle and a small valise be -PRON- whole 
      belonging . -PRON- have register -PRON- name as come from London , but have 
      give no address . the valise be London make , and the content be 
      british ; but the man -PRON- be undoubtedly an American . " 

      " well , well , " say Holmes gleefully , " -PRON- have indeed do some solid 
      work while -PRON- have be sit spin theory with -PRON- friend ! -PRON- be 
      a lesson in be practical , Mr. Mac . " 

      " ay , -PRON- be just that , Mr. Holmes , " say the inspector with 
      satisfaction . 

      " but this may all fit in with -PRON- theory , " -PRON- remark . 

      " that may or may not be . but let -PRON- hear the end , Mr. Mac . be there 
      nothing to identify this man ? " 

      " so little that -PRON- be evident that -PRON- have carefully guard -PRON- 
      against identification . there be no paper or letter , and no 
      mark upon the clothe . a cycle map of the county lie on -PRON- 
      bedroom table . -PRON- have leave the hotel after breakfast yesterday 
      morning on -PRON- bicycle , and no more be hear of -PRON- until -PRON- 
      inquiry . " 

      " that be what puzzle -PRON- , Mr. Holmes , " say White Mason . " if the 
      fellow do not want the hue and cry raise over -PRON- , one would 
      imagine that -PRON- would have return and remain at the hotel as an 
      inoffensive tourist . as -PRON- be , -PRON- must know that -PRON- will be report 
      to the police by the hotel manager and that -PRON- disappearance will be 
      connect with the murder . " 

      " so one would imagine . still , -PRON- have be justify of -PRON- wisdom up 
      to date , at any rate , since -PRON- have not be take . but -PRON- 
      description -- what of that ? " 

      MacDonald refer to -PRON- notebook . " here -PRON- have -PRON- so far as -PRON- 
      could give -PRON- . -PRON- do not seem to have take any very particular 
      stock of -PRON- ; but still the porter , the clerk , and the chambermaid 
      be all agree that this about cover the point . -PRON- be a man about 
      five foot nine in height , fifty or so year of age , -PRON- hair slightly 
      grizzle , a grayish moustache , a curved nose , and a face which all of 
      -PRON- describe as fierce and forbidding . " 

      " well , bar the expression , that may almost be a description of 
      Douglas -PRON- , " say Holmes . " -PRON- be just over fifty , with grizzle 
      hair and moustache , and about the same height . do -PRON- get anything 
      else ? " 

      " -PRON- be dress in a heavy gray suit with a reefer jacket , and -PRON- 
      wear a short yellow overcoat and a soft cap . " 

      " what about the shotgun ? " 

      " -PRON- be less than two foot long . -PRON- could very well have fit into 
      -PRON- valise . -PRON- could have carry -PRON- inside -PRON- overcoat without 
      difficulty . " 

      " and how do -PRON- consider that all this bear upon the general case ? " 

      " well , Mr. Holmes , " say MacDonald , " when -PRON- have get -PRON- man -- and 
      -PRON- may be sure that -PRON- have -PRON- description on the wire within five 
      minute of hear -PRON- -- -PRON- shall be better able to judge . but , even as 
      -PRON- stand , -PRON- have surely go a long way . -PRON- know that an American 
      call -PRON- Hargrave come to Tunbridge Wells two day ago with 
      bicycle and valise . in the latter be a saw - off shotgun ; so -PRON- come 
      with the deliberate purpose of crime . yesterday morning -PRON- set off 
      for this place on -PRON- bicycle , with -PRON- gun conceal in -PRON- 
      overcoat . no one see -PRON- arrive , so far as -PRON- can learn ; but -PRON- need 
      not pass through the village to reach the park gate , and there be 
      many cyclist upon the road . presumably -PRON- at once conceal -PRON- 
      cycle among the laurel where -PRON- be find , and possibly lurk there 
      -PRON- , with -PRON- eye on the house , wait for Mr. Douglas to come 
      out . the shotgun be a strange weapon to use inside a house ; but -PRON- 
      have intend to use -PRON- outside , and there -PRON- have very obvious 
      advantage , as -PRON- would be impossible to miss with -PRON- , and the sound 
      of shot be so common in an english sporting neighbourhood that no 
      particular notice would be take . " 

      " that be all very clear , " say Holmes . 

      " well , Mr. Douglas do not appear . what be -PRON- to do next ? -PRON- leave 
      -PRON- bicycle and approach the house in the twilight . -PRON- find the 
      bridge down and no one about . -PRON- take -PRON- chance , intending , no 
      doubt , to make some excuse if -PRON- meet anyone . -PRON- meet no one . -PRON- 
      slip into the first room that -PRON- see , and conceal -PRON- behind 
      the curtain . thence -PRON- could see the drawbridge go up , and -PRON- know 
      that -PRON- only escape be through the moat . -PRON- wait until 
      quarter - past eleven , when Mr. Douglas upon -PRON- usual nightly round 
      come into the room . -PRON- shoot -PRON- and escape , as arrange . -PRON- be 
      aware that the bicycle would be describe by the hotel people and be 
      a clue against -PRON- ; so -PRON- leave -PRON- there and make -PRON- way by some 
      other mean to London or to some safe hiding place which -PRON- have 
      already arrange . how be that , Mr. Holmes ? " 

      " well , Mr. Mac , -PRON- be very good and very clear so far as -PRON- go . 
      that be -PRON- end of the story . -PRON- end be that the crime be commit 
      half an hour earlier than report ; that Mrs. Douglas and Barker be 
      both in a conspiracy to conceal something ; that -PRON- aid the 
      murderer 's escape -- or at least that -PRON- reach the room before -PRON- 
      escape -- and that -PRON- fabricate evidence of -PRON- escape through the 
      window , whereas in all probability -PRON- have -PRON- let -PRON- go by 
      lower the bridge . that be -PRON- reading of the first half . " 

      the two detective shake -PRON- head . 

      " well , Mr. Holmes , if this be true , -PRON- only tumble out of one mystery 
      into another , " say the London inspector . 

      " and in some way a bad one , " add White Mason . " the lady have 
      never be in America in all -PRON- life . what possible connection could 
      -PRON- have with an american assassin which would cause -PRON- to shelter 
      -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- freely admit the difficulty , " say Holmes . " -PRON- propose to make a 
      little investigation of -PRON- own to - night , and -PRON- be just possible that 
      -PRON- may contribute something to the common cause . " 

      " Can -PRON- help -PRON- , Mr. Holmes ? " 

      " no , no ! darkness and Dr. Watson 's umbrella -- -PRON- want be simple . and 
      Ames , the faithful Ames , no doubt -PRON- will stretch a point for -PRON- . all 
      -PRON- line of thought lead -PRON- back invariably to the one basic 
      question -- why should an athletic man develop -PRON- frame upon so 
      unnatural an instrument as a single dumb - bell ? " 

      -PRON- be late that night when Holmes return from -PRON- solitary 
      excursion . -PRON- sleep in a double - bed room , which be the good that 
      the little country inn could do for -PRON- . -PRON- be already asleep when -PRON- 
      be partly awaken by -PRON- entrance . 

      " well , Holmes , " -PRON- murmur , " have -PRON- find anything out ? " 

      -PRON- stand beside -PRON- in silence , -PRON- candle in -PRON- hand . then the tall , 
      lean figure incline towards -PRON- . " -PRON- say , Watson , " -PRON- whisper , 
      " would -PRON- be afraid to sleep in the same room with a lunatic , a man 
      with softening of the brain , an idiot whose mind have lose -PRON- grip ? " 

      " not in the least , " -PRON- answer in astonishment . 

      " ah , that be lucky , " -PRON- say , and not another word would -PRON- utter that 
      night . 





           CHAPTER VII 
           the Solution 


      next morning , after breakfast , -PRON- find Inspector MacDonald and White 
      Mason seat in close consultation in the small parlour of the local 
      police sergeant . on the table in front of -PRON- be pile a number of 
      letter and telegram , which -PRON- be carefully sort and 
      docket . three have be place on one side . 

      " still on the track of the elusive bicyclist ? " Holmes ask 
      cheerfully . " what be the late news of the ruffian ? " 

      MacDonald point ruefully to -PRON- heap of correspondence . 

      " -PRON- be at present report from Leicester , Nottingham , Southampton , 
      Derby , East Ham , Richmond , and fourteen other place . in three of 
      -PRON- -- East Ham , Leicester , and Liverpool -- there be a clear case 
      against -PRON- , and -PRON- have actually be arrest . the country seem to 
      be full of the fugitive with yellow coat . " 

      " dear -PRON- ! " say Holmes sympathetically . " now , Mr. Mac and -PRON- , Mr. 
      White Mason , -PRON- wish to give -PRON- a very earnest piece of advice . when 
      -PRON- go into this case with -PRON- -PRON- bargain , as -PRON- will no doubt 
      remember , that -PRON- should not present -PRON- with half - proved theory , 
      but that -PRON- should retain and work out -PRON- own idea until -PRON- have 
      satisfy -PRON- that -PRON- be correct . for this reason -PRON- be not at 
      the present moment tell -PRON- all that be in -PRON- mind . on the other 
      hand , -PRON- say that -PRON- would play the game fairly by -PRON- , and -PRON- do not 
      think -PRON- be a fair game to allow -PRON- for one unnecessary moment to 
      waste -PRON- energy upon a profitless task . therefore -PRON- be here to 
      advise -PRON- this morning , and -PRON- advice to -PRON- be sum up in three 
      word -- abandon the case . " 

      MacDonald and White Mason stare in amazement at -PRON- celebrated 
      colleague . 

      " -PRON- consider -PRON- hopeless ! " cry the inspector . 

      " -PRON- consider -PRON- case to be hopeless . -PRON- do not consider that -PRON- be 
      hopeless to arrive at the truth . " 

      " but this cyclist . -PRON- be not an invention . -PRON- have -PRON- description , 
      -PRON- valise , -PRON- bicycle . the fellow must be somewhere . why should -PRON- 
      not get -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , yes , no doubt -PRON- be somewhere , and no doubt -PRON- shall get -PRON- ; 
      but -PRON- would not have -PRON- waste -PRON- energy in East Ham or 
      Liverpool . -PRON- be sure that -PRON- can find some short cut to a result . " 

      " -PRON- be hold something back . -PRON- be hardly fair of -PRON- , Mr. 
      Holmes . " the inspector be annoy . 

      " -PRON- know -PRON- method of work , Mr. Mac . but -PRON- will hold -PRON- back for 
      the short time possible . -PRON- only wish to verify -PRON- detail in one 
      way , which can very readily be do , and then -PRON- make -PRON- bow and 
      return to London , leave -PRON- result entirely at -PRON- service . -PRON- owe 
      -PRON- too much to act otherwise ; for in all -PRON- experience -PRON- can not 
      recall any more singular and interesting study . " 

      " this be clean beyond -PRON- , Mr. Holmes . -PRON- see -PRON- when -PRON- return 
      from Tunbridge Wells last night , and -PRON- be in general agreement 
      with -PRON- result . what have happen since then to give -PRON- a 
      completely new idea of the case ? " 

      " well , since -PRON- ask -PRON- , -PRON- spend , as -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- would , some 
      hour last night at the Manor House . " 

      " well , what happen ? " 

      " ah , -PRON- can only give -PRON- a very general answer to that for the 
      moment . by the way , -PRON- have be read a short but clear and 
      interesting account of the old building , purchasable at the modest 
      sum of one penny from the local tobacconist . " 

      here Holmes draw a small tract , embellish with a rude engraving of 
      the ancient Manor House , from -PRON- waistcoat pocket . 

      " -PRON- immensely add to the z of an investigation , -PRON- dear Mr. Mac , 
      when one be in conscious sympathy with the historical atmosphere of 
      one 's surrounding . do not look so impatient ; for -PRON- assure -PRON- that 
      even so bald an account as this raise some sort of picture of the 
      past in one 's mind . permit -PRON- to give -PRON- a sample . ' erect in the 
      fifth year of the reign of James I , and stand upon the site of a 
      much old building , the Manor House of Birlstone present one of the 
      fine survive example of the moated Jacobean residence-- ' " 

      " -PRON- be make fool of -PRON- , Mr. Holmes ! " 

      " tut , tut , Mr. Mac!--the first sign of temper -PRON- have detect in -PRON- . 
      well , -PRON- will not read -PRON- verbatim , since -PRON- feel so strongly upon the 
      subject . but when -PRON- tell -PRON- that there be some account of the take 
      of the place by a parliamentary colonel in 1644 , of the concealment 
      of Charles for several day in the course of the Civil War , and 
      finally of a visit there by the second George , -PRON- will admit that 
      there be various association of interest connect with this 
      ancient house . " 

      " -PRON- do not doubt -PRON- , Mr. Holmes ; but that be no business of -PRON- . " 

      " be -PRON- not ? be -PRON- not ? breadth of view , -PRON- dear Mr. Mac , be one of 
      the essential of -PRON- profession . the interplay of idea and the 
      oblique use of knowledge be often of extraordinary interest . -PRON- 
      will excuse these remark from one who , though a mere connoisseur of 
      crime , be still rather old and perhaps more experienced than 
      -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be the first to admit that , " say the detective heartily . " -PRON- get 
      to -PRON- point , -PRON- admit ; but -PRON- have such a deuced round - the - corner 
      way of do -PRON- . " 

      " well , well , -PRON- will drop past history and get down to present - day 
      fact . -PRON- call last night , as -PRON- have already say , at the Manor 
      House . -PRON- do not see either Barker or Mrs. Douglas . -PRON- see no 
      necessity to disturb -PRON- ; but -PRON- be pleased to hear that the lady 
      be not visibly pine and that -PRON- have partake of an excellent 
      dinner . -PRON- visit be specially make to the good Mr. Ames , with whom -PRON- 
      exchange some amiability , which culminate in -PRON- allow -PRON- , 
      without reference to anyone else , to sit alone for a time in the 
      study . " 

      " what ! with that ? " -PRON- ejaculate . 

      " no , no , everything be now in order . -PRON- give permission for that , 
      Mr. Mac , as -PRON- be inform . the room be in -PRON- normal state , and in 
      -PRON- -PRON- pass an instructive quarter of an hour . " 

      " what be -PRON- do ? " 

      " well , not to make a mystery of so simple a matter , -PRON- be look for 
      the miss dumb - bell . -PRON- have always bulk rather large in -PRON- 
      estimate of the case . -PRON- end by find -PRON- . " 

      " where ? " 

      " ah , there -PRON- come to the edge of the unexplored . let -PRON- go a little 
      further , a very little further , and -PRON- will promise that -PRON- shall 
      share everything that -PRON- know . " 

      " well , -PRON- be bind to take -PRON- on -PRON- own term , " say the 
      inspector ; " but when -PRON- come to tell -PRON- to abandon the case -- why 
      in the name of goodness should -PRON- abandon the case ? " 

      " for the simple reason , -PRON- dear Mr. Mac , that -PRON- have not get the 
      first idea what -PRON- be that -PRON- be investigate . " 

      " -PRON- be investigate the murder of Mr. John Douglas of Birlstone 
      Manor . " 

      " yes , yes , so -PRON- be . but do not trouble to trace the mysterious 
      gentleman upon the bicycle . -PRON- assure -PRON- that -PRON- will not help -PRON- . " 

      " then what do -PRON- suggest that -PRON- do ? " 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- exactly what to do , if -PRON- will do -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- be bind to say -PRON- have always find -PRON- have reason behind all 
      -PRON- queer way . -PRON- will do what -PRON- advise . " 

      " and -PRON- , Mr. White Mason ? " 

      the country detective look helplessly from one to the other . Holmes 
      and -PRON- method be new to -PRON- . " well , if -PRON- be good enough for the 
      inspector , -PRON- be good enough for -PRON- , " -PRON- say at last . 

      " capital ! " say Holmes . " well , then , -PRON- should recommend a nice , 
      cheery country walk for both of -PRON- . -PRON- tell -PRON- that the view from 
      Birlstone Ridge over the Weald be very remarkable . no doubt lunch 
      could be get at some suitable hostelry ; though -PRON- ignorance of the 
      country prevent -PRON- from recommend one . in the evening , tired but 
      happy-- " 

      " man , this be get past a joke ! " cry MacDonald , rise angrily 
      from -PRON- chair . 

      " well , well , spend the day as -PRON- like , " say Holmes , pat -PRON- 
      cheerfully upon the shoulder . " do what -PRON- like and go where -PRON- 
      will , but meet -PRON- here before dusk without fail -- without fail , Mr. 
      Mac . " 

      " that sound more like sanity . " 

      " all of -PRON- be excellent advice ; but -PRON- do not insist , so long as -PRON- 
      be here when -PRON- need -PRON- . but now , before -PRON- part , -PRON- want -PRON- to 
      write a note to Mr. Barker . " 

      " well ? " 

      " -PRON- will dictate -PRON- , if -PRON- like . ready ? 

      " dear Sir : 
      " -PRON- have strike -PRON- that -PRON- be -PRON- duty to drain the moat , in the hope 
      that -PRON- may find some-- " 

      " -PRON- be impossible , " say the inspector . " -PRON- have make inquiry . " 

      " tut , tut ! -PRON- dear sir , please do what -PRON- ask -PRON- . " 

      " well , go on . " 

      " --in the hope that -PRON- may find something which may bear upon -PRON- 
      investigation . -PRON- have make arrangement , and the workman will be at 
      work early to - morrow morning divert the stream-- " 

      " impossible ! " 

      " --diverte the stream ; so -PRON- think -PRON- best to explain matter 
      beforehand . 

      " now sign that , and send -PRON- by hand about four o'clock . at that hour 
      -PRON- shall meet again in this room . until then -PRON- may each do what -PRON- 
      like ; for -PRON- can assure -PRON- that this inquiry have come to a definite 
      pause . " 

      evening be draw in when -PRON- reassemble . Holmes be very serious 
      in -PRON- manner , -PRON- curious , and the detective obviously critical 
      and annoy . 

      " well , gentleman , " say -PRON- friend gravely , " -PRON- be ask -PRON- now to 
      put everything to the test with -PRON- , and -PRON- will judge for yourself 
      whether the observation -PRON- have make justify the conclusion to which 
      -PRON- have come . -PRON- be a chill evening , and -PRON- do not know how long -PRON- 
      expedition may last ; so -PRON- beg that -PRON- will wear -PRON- warm coat . 
      -PRON- be of the first importance that -PRON- should be in -PRON- place before 
      -PRON- grow dark ; so with -PRON- permission -PRON- shall get start at once . " 

      -PRON- pass along the outer bound of the Manor House park until -PRON- 
      come to a place where there be a gap in the rail which fence -PRON- . 
      through this -PRON- slip , and then in the gathering gloom -PRON- follow 
      Holmes until -PRON- have reach a shrubbery which lie nearly opposite to 
      the main door and the drawbridge . the latter have not be raise . 
      Holmes crouch down behind the screen of laurel , and -PRON- all three 
      follow -PRON- example . 

      " well , what be -PRON- to do now ? " ask MacDonald with some gruffness . 

      " possess -PRON- soul in patience and make as little noise as possible , " 
      Holmes answer . 

      " what be -PRON- here for at all ? -PRON- really think that -PRON- may treat -PRON- 
      with more frankness . " 

      Holmes laugh . " Watson insist that -PRON- be the dramatist in real 
      life , " say -PRON- . " some touch of the artist well up within -PRON- , and 
      call insistently for a well - stage performance . surely -PRON- 
      profession , Mr. Mac , would be a drab and sordid one if -PRON- do not 
      sometimes set the scene so as to glorify -PRON- result . the blunt 
      accusation , the brutal tap upon the shoulder -- what can one make of 
      such a dnouement ? but the quick inference , the subtle trap , the 
      clever forecast of come event , the triumphant vindication of bold 
      theory -- be these not the pride and the justification of -PRON- life 's 
      work ? at the present moment -PRON- thrill with the glamour of the 
      situation and the anticipation of the hunt . where would be that 
      thrill if -PRON- have be as definite as a timetable ? -PRON- only ask a little 
      patience , Mr. Mac , and all will be clear to -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- hope the pride and justification and the rest of -PRON- will 
      come before -PRON- all get -PRON- death of cold , " say the London detective 
      with comic resignation . 

      -PRON- all have good reason to join in the aspiration ; for -PRON- vigil be a 
      long and bitter one . slowly the shadow darken over the long , 
      sombre face of the old house . a cold , damp reek from the moat chill 
      -PRON- to the bone and set -PRON- tooth chatter . there be a single lamp 
      over the gateway and a steady globe of light in the fatal study . 
      everything else be dark and still . 

      " how long be this to last ? " ask the inspector finally . " and what be 
      -PRON- -PRON- be watch for ? " 

      " -PRON- have no more notion than -PRON- how long -PRON- be to last , " Holmes 
      answer with some asperity . " if criminal would always schedule 
      -PRON- movement like railway train , -PRON- would certainly be more 
      convenient for all of -PRON- . as to what -PRON- be -PRON- -- well , that be what -PRON- 
      be watch for ! " 

      as -PRON- speak the bright , yellow light in the study be obscure by 
      somebody pass to and fro before -PRON- . the laurel among which -PRON- lay 
      be immediately opposite the window and not more than a hundred foot 
      from -PRON- . presently -PRON- be throw open with a whining of hinge , and 
      -PRON- could dimly see the dark outline of a man 's head and shoulder 
      look out into the gloom . for some minute -PRON- peer forth in 
      furtive , stealthy fashion , as one who wish to be assure that -PRON- be 
      unobserved . then -PRON- lean forward , and in the intense silence -PRON- 
      be aware of the soft lapping of agitated water . -PRON- seem to be 
      stir up the moat with something which -PRON- hold in -PRON- hand . then 
      suddenly -PRON- haul something in as a fisherman land a fish -- some 
      large , round object which obscure the light as -PRON- be drag 
      through the open casement . 

      " now ! " cry Holmes . " now ! " 

      -PRON- be all upon -PRON- foot , stagger after -PRON- with -PRON- stiffened 
      limb , while -PRON- run swiftly across the bridge and ring violently at 
      the bell . there be the rasping of bolt from the other side , and the 
      amazed Ames stand in the entrance . Holmes brush -PRON- aside without a 
      word and , follow by all of -PRON- , rush into the room which have be 
      occupy by the man whom -PRON- have be watch . 

      the oil lamp on the table represent the glow which -PRON- have see from 
      outside . -PRON- be now in the hand of Cecil Barker , who hold -PRON- towards 
      -PRON- as -PRON- enter . -PRON- light shine upon -PRON- strong , resolute , 
      clean - shaved face and -PRON- menacing eye . 

      " what the devil be the meaning of all this ? " -PRON- cry . " what be -PRON- 
      after , anyhow ? " 

      Holmes take a swift glance round , and then pounce upon a sodden 
      bundle tie together with cord which lie where -PRON- have be thrust 
      under the writing table . 

      " this be what -PRON- be after , Mr. Barker -- this bundle , weight with a 
      dumb - bell , which -PRON- have just raise from the bottom of the moat . " 

      Barker stare at Holmes with amazement in -PRON- face . " how in thunder 
      come -PRON- to know anything about -PRON- ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " simply that -PRON- put -PRON- there . " 

      " -PRON- put -PRON- there ! -PRON- ! " 

      " perhaps -PRON- should have say ' replace -PRON- there , ' " say Holmes . " -PRON- 
      will remember , Inspector MacDonald , that -PRON- be somewhat strike by the 
      absence of a dumb - bell . -PRON- draw -PRON- attention to -PRON- ; but with the 
      pressure of other event -PRON- have hardly the time to give -PRON- the 
      consideration which would have enable -PRON- to draw deduction from 
      -PRON- . when water be near and a weight be miss -PRON- be not a very 
      far - fetched supposition that something have be sink in the water . 
      the idea be at least worth testing ; so with the help of Ames , who 
      admit -PRON- to the room , and the crook of Dr. Watson 's umbrella , -PRON- 
      be able last night to fish up and inspect this bundle . 

      " -PRON- be of the first importance , however , that -PRON- should be able to 
      prove who place -PRON- there . this -PRON- accomplish by the very obvious 
      device of announce that the moat would be dry to - morrow , which 
      have , of course , the effect that whoever have hide the bundle would 
      most certainly withdraw -PRON- the moment that darkness enable -PRON- to do 
      so . -PRON- have no less than four witness as to who -PRON- be who take 
      advantage of the opportunity , and so , Mr. Barker , -PRON- think the word 
      lie now with -PRON- . " 

      Sherlock Holmes put the sopping bundle upon the table beside the lamp 
      and undo the cord which bind -PRON- . from within -PRON- extract a 
      dumb - bell , which -PRON- toss down to -PRON- fellow in the corner . next -PRON- 
      draw forth a pair of boot . " American , as -PRON- perceive , " -PRON- remark , 
      point to the toe . then -PRON- lay upon the table a long , deadly , 
      sheathe knife . finally -PRON- unravel a bundle of clothing , 
      comprise a complete set of underclothe , socks , a gray tweed suit , 
      and a short yellow overcoat . 

      " the clothe be commonplace , " remark Holmes , " save only the 
      overcoat , which be full of suggestive touch . " -PRON- hold -PRON- tenderly 
      towards the light . " here , as -PRON- perceive , be the inner pocket 
      prolong into the lining in such fashion as to give ample space for 
      the truncate fowl piece . the tailor 's tab be on the neck--'Neal , 
      Outfitter , Vermissa , U. S. A. ' -PRON- have spend an instructive afternoon 
      in the rector 's library , and have enlarge -PRON- knowledge by add the 
      fact that Vermissa be a flourish little town at the head of one of 
      the best know coal and iron valley in the United States . -PRON- have 
      some recollection , Mr. Barker , that -PRON- associate the coal district 
      with Mr. Douglas 's first wife , and -PRON- would surely not be too 
      far - fetch an inference that the V. V. upon the card by the dead 
      body may stand for Vermissa Valley , or that this very valley which 
      send forth emissary of murder may be that Valley of Fear of which 
      -PRON- have hear . so much be fairly clear . and now , Mr. Barker , -PRON- seem 
      to be stand rather in the way of -PRON- explanation . " 

      -PRON- be a sight to see Cecil Barker 's expressive face during this 
      exposition of the great detective . anger , amazement , consternation , 
      and indecision sweep over -PRON- in turn . finally -PRON- take refuge in a 
      somewhat acrid irony . 

      " -PRON- know such a lot , Mr. Holmes , perhaps -PRON- have better tell -PRON- some 
      more , " -PRON- sneer . 

      " -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- could tell -PRON- a great deal more , Mr. Barker ; 
      but -PRON- would come with a well grace from -PRON- . " 

      " oh , -PRON- think so , do -PRON- ? well , all -PRON- can say be that if there be any 
      secret here -PRON- be not -PRON- secret , and -PRON- be not the man to give -PRON- 
      away . " 

      " well , if -PRON- take that line , Mr. Barker , " say the inspector 
      quietly , " -PRON- must just keep -PRON- in sight until -PRON- have the warrant 
      and can hold -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- can do what -PRON- damn please about that , " say Barker defiantly . 

      the proceeding seem to have come to a definite end so far as -PRON- 
      be concern ; for one have only to look at that granite face to 
      realize that no peine forte et dure would ever force -PRON- to plead 
      against -PRON- will . the deadlock be break , however , by a woman 's 
      voice . Mrs. Douglas have be stand listen at the half open 
      door , and now -PRON- enter the room . 

      " -PRON- have do enough for now , Cecil , " say -PRON- . " whatever come of 
      -PRON- in the future , -PRON- have do enough . " 

      " Enough and more than enough , " remark Sherlock Holmes gravely . " -PRON- 
      have every sympathy with -PRON- , madam , and should strongly urge -PRON- to 
      have some confidence in the common sense of -PRON- jurisdiction and to 
      take the police voluntarily into -PRON- complete confidence . -PRON- may be 
      that -PRON- be -PRON- at fault for not follow up the hint which -PRON- 
      convey to -PRON- through -PRON- friend , Dr. Watson ; but , at that time -PRON- have 
      every reason to believe that -PRON- be directly concern in the 
      crime . now -PRON- be assure that this be not so . at the same time , there 
      be much that be unexplained , and -PRON- should strongly recommend that -PRON- 
      ask Mr. Douglas to tell -PRON- -PRON- own story . " 

      Mrs. Douglas give a cry of astonishment at Holmes 's word . the 
      detective and -PRON- must have echo -PRON- , when -PRON- be aware of a man who 
      seem to have emerge from the wall , who advance now from the gloom 
      of the corner in which -PRON- have appear . Mrs. Douglas turn , and in 
      an instant -PRON- arm be round -PRON- . Barker have seize -PRON- 
      outstretched hand . 

      " -PRON- be good this way , Jack , " -PRON- wife repeat ; " -PRON- be sure that -PRON- be 
      good . " 

      " indeed , yes , Mr. Douglas , " say Sherlock Holmes , " -PRON- be sure that -PRON- 
      will find -PRON- good . " 

      the man stand blink at -PRON- with the dazed look of one who come 
      from the dark into the light . -PRON- be a remarkable face , bold gray 
      eye , a strong , short - clip , grizzle moustache , a square , 
      project chin , and a humorous mouth . -PRON- take a good look at -PRON- all , 
      and then to -PRON- amazement -PRON- advance to -PRON- and hand -PRON- a bundle of 
      paper . 

      " -PRON- have hear of -PRON- , " say -PRON- in a voice which be not quite english 
      and not quite american , but be altogether mellow and pleasing . " -PRON- 
      be the historian of this bunch . well , Dr. Watson , -PRON- have never have 
      such a story as that pass through -PRON- hand before , and -PRON- will lay -PRON- 
      last dollar on that . tell -PRON- -PRON- own way ; but there be the fact , 
      and -PRON- can not miss the public so long as -PRON- have those . -PRON- have be 
      coope up two day , and -PRON- have spend the daylight hour -- as much 
      daylight as -PRON- could get in that rat trap -- in put the thing into 
      word . -PRON- be welcome to -PRON- -- -PRON- and -PRON- public . there be the story 
      of the Valley of Fear . " 

      " that be the past , Mr. Douglas , " say Sherlock Holmes quietly . " what 
      -PRON- desire now be to hear -PRON- story of the present . " 

      " -PRON- will have -PRON- , sir , " say Douglas . " May -PRON- smoke as -PRON- talk ? well , 
      thank -PRON- , Mr. Holmes . -PRON- be a smoker -PRON- , if -PRON- remember right , 
      and -PRON- will guess what -PRON- be to be sit for two day with tobacco 
      in -PRON- pocket and afraid that the smell will give -PRON- away . " -PRON- 
      lean against the mantelpiece and suck at the cigar which Holmes 
      have hand -PRON- . " -PRON- have hear of -PRON- , Mr. Holmes . -PRON- never guess that 
      -PRON- should meet -PRON- . but before -PRON- be through with that , " -PRON- nod 
      at -PRON- paper , " -PRON- will say -PRON- have bring -PRON- something fresh . " 

      Inspector MacDonald have be stare at the newcomer with the 
      great amazement . " well , this fairly beat -PRON- ! " -PRON- cry at last . 
      " if -PRON- be Mr. John Douglas of Birlstone Manor , then whose death 
      have -PRON- be investigate for these two day , and where in the world 
      have -PRON- spring from now ? -PRON- seem to -PRON- to come out of the floor 
      like a jack - in - a - box . " 

      " ah , Mr. Mac , " say Holmes , shake a reproving forefinger , " -PRON- 
      would not read that excellent local compilation which describe the 
      concealment of King Charles . People do not hide in those day 
      without excellent hiding place , and the hiding place that have once 
      be use may be again . -PRON- have persuade -PRON- that -PRON- should find 
      Mr. Douglas under this roof . " 

      " and how long have -PRON- be play this trick upon -PRON- , Mr. Holmes ? " 
      say the inspector angrily . " how long have -PRON- allow -PRON- to waste 
      -PRON- upon a search that -PRON- know to be an absurd one ? " 

      " not one instant , -PRON- dear Mr. Mac . only last night do -PRON- form -PRON- 
      view of the case . as -PRON- could not be put to the proof until this 
      evening , -PRON- invite -PRON- and -PRON- colleague to take a holiday for the 
      day . pray what more could -PRON- do ? when -PRON- find the suit of clothe in 
      the moat , -PRON- at once become apparent to -PRON- that the body -PRON- have find 
      could not have be the body of Mr. John Douglas at all , but must be 
      that of the bicyclist from Tunbridge Wells . no other conclusion be 
      possible . therefore -PRON- have to determine where Mr. John Douglas -PRON- 
      could be , and the balance of probability be that with the connivance 
      of -PRON- wife and -PRON- friend -PRON- be conceal in a house which have such 
      convenience for a fugitive , and await quieter time when -PRON- could 
      make -PRON- final escape . " 

      " well , -PRON- figure -PRON- out about right , " say Douglas approvingly . " -PRON- 
      think -PRON- would dodge -PRON- british law ; for -PRON- be not sure how -PRON- stand 
      under -PRON- , and also -PRON- see -PRON- chance to throw these hound once for all 
      off -PRON- track . mind -PRON- , from first to last -PRON- have do nothing to be 
      ashamed of , and nothing that -PRON- would not do again ; but -PRON- will judge 
      that for yourself when -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- story . never mind warn -PRON- , 
      inspector : -PRON- be ready to stand pat upon the truth . 

      " -PRON- be not go to begin at the beginning . that be all there , " -PRON- 
      indicate -PRON- bundle of paper , " and a mighty queer yarn -PRON- will find 
      -PRON- . -PRON- all come down to this : that there be some man that have good 
      cause to hate -PRON- and would give -PRON- last dollar to know that -PRON- 
      have get -PRON- . so long as -PRON- be alive and -PRON- be alive , there be no 
      safety in this world for -PRON- . -PRON- hunt -PRON- from Chicago to 
      California , then -PRON- chase -PRON- out of America ; but when -PRON- marry 
      and settle down in this quiet spot -PRON- think -PRON- last year be 
      go to be peaceable . 

      " -PRON- never explain to -PRON- wife how thing be . why should -PRON- pull -PRON- 
      into -PRON- ? -PRON- would never have a quiet moment again ; but would always 
      be imagine trouble . -PRON- fancy -PRON- know something , for -PRON- may have 
      drop a word here or a word there ; but until yesterday , after -PRON- 
      gentleman have see -PRON- , -PRON- never know the right of the matter . -PRON- 
      tell -PRON- all -PRON- know , and so do Barker here ; for on the night when 
      this thing happen there be mighty little time for explanation . 
      -PRON- know everything now , and -PRON- would have be a wise man if -PRON- have 
      tell -PRON- sooner . but -PRON- be a hard question , dear , " -PRON- take -PRON- hand 
      for an instant in -PRON- own , " and -PRON- act for the good . 

      " well , gentleman , the day before these happening -PRON- be over in 
      Tunbridge Wells , and -PRON- get a glimpse of a man in the street . -PRON- be 
      only a glimpse ; but -PRON- have a quick eye for these thing , and -PRON- never 
      doubt who -PRON- be . -PRON- be the bad enemy -PRON- have among -PRON- all -- one 
      who have be after -PRON- like a hungry wolf after a caribou all these 
      year . -PRON- know there be trouble come , and -PRON- come home and make 
      ready for -PRON- . -PRON- guess -PRON- would fight through -PRON- all right on -PRON- own , -PRON- 
      luck be a proverb in the States about ' 76 . -PRON- never doubt that -PRON- 
      would be with -PRON- still . 

      " -PRON- be on -PRON- guard all that next day , and never go out into the 
      park . -PRON- be as well , or -PRON- would have have the drop on -PRON- with that 
      buckshot gun of -PRON- before ever -PRON- could draw on -PRON- . after the bridge 
      be up -- -PRON- mind be always more restful when that bridge be up in 
      the evening -- -PRON- put the thing clear out of -PRON- head . -PRON- never dream 
      of -PRON- get into the house and wait for -PRON- . but when -PRON- make -PRON- 
      round in -PRON- dressing gown , as be -PRON- habit , -PRON- have no sooner enter 
      the study than -PRON- scent danger . -PRON- guess when a man have have danger 
      in -PRON- life -- and -PRON- have have more than most in -PRON- time -- there be a kind 
      of sixth sense that wave the red flag . -PRON- see the signal clear 
      enough , and yet -PRON- could not tell -PRON- why . next instant -PRON- spot a 
      boot under the window curtain , and then -PRON- see why plain enough . 

      " -PRON- would just the one candle that be in -PRON- hand ; but there be a good 
      light from the hall lamp through the open door . -PRON- put down the candle 
      and jump for a hammer that -PRON- would leave on the mantel . at the same 
      moment -PRON- spring at -PRON- . -PRON- see the glint of a knife , and -PRON- lash at 
      -PRON- with the hammer . -PRON- get -PRON- somewhere ; for the knife tinkle down 
      on the floor . -PRON- dodge round the table as quick as an eel , and a 
      moment later -PRON- would get -PRON- gun from under -PRON- coat . -PRON- hear -PRON- cock 
      -PRON- ; but -PRON- have get hold of -PRON- before -PRON- could fire . -PRON- have -PRON- by the 
      barrel , and -PRON- wrestle for -PRON- all end up for a minute or more . -PRON- 
      be death to the man that lose -PRON- grip . 

      " -PRON- never lose -PRON- grip ; but -PRON- get -PRON- butt downward for a moment too 
      long . maybe -PRON- be -PRON- that pull the trigger . maybe -PRON- just jolt -PRON- 
      off between -PRON- . anyhow , -PRON- get both barrel in the face , and there -PRON- 
      be , stare down at all that be leave of Ted Baldwin . -PRON- would recognize 
      -PRON- in the township , and again when -PRON- spring for -PRON- ; but -PRON- own 
      mother would not recognize -PRON- as -PRON- see -PRON- then . -PRON- be use to rough 
      work ; but -PRON- fairly turn sick at the sight of -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be hang on the side of the table when Barker come hurry 
      down . -PRON- hear -PRON- wife come , and -PRON- run to the door and stop -PRON- . 
      -PRON- be no sight for a woman . -PRON- promise -PRON- would come to -PRON- soon . -PRON- say 
      a word or two to Barker -- -PRON- take -PRON- all in at a glance -- and -PRON- wait 
      for the rest to come along . but there be no sign of -PRON- . then -PRON- 
      understand that -PRON- could hear nothing , and that all that have 
      happen be know only to -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be at that instant that the idea come to -PRON- . -PRON- be fairly 
      dazzle by the brilliance of -PRON- . the man 's sleeve have slip up and 
      there be the branded mark of the lodge upon -PRON- forearm . see here ! " 

      the man whom -PRON- have know as Douglas turn up -PRON- own coat and cuff 
      to show a brown triangle within a circle exactly like that which -PRON- 
      have see upon the dead man . 

      " -PRON- be the sight of that which start -PRON- on -PRON- . -PRON- seem to see -PRON- 
      all clear at a glance . there be -PRON- height and hair and figure , 
      about the same as -PRON- own . no one could swear to -PRON- face , poor devil ! 
      -PRON- bring down this suit of clothe , and in a quarter of an hour 
      Barker and -PRON- have put -PRON- dressing gown on -PRON- and -PRON- lie as -PRON- find 
      -PRON- . -PRON- tie all -PRON- thing into a bundle , and -PRON- weight -PRON- with 
      the only weight -PRON- could find and put -PRON- through the window . the 
      card -PRON- have mean to lay upon -PRON- body be lie beside -PRON- own . 

      " -PRON- ring be put on -PRON- finger ; but when -PRON- come to the wedding 
      ring , " -PRON- hold out -PRON- muscular hand , " -PRON- can see for yourself 
      that -PRON- have strike the limit . -PRON- have not move -PRON- since the day -PRON- be 
      married , and -PRON- would have take a file to get -PRON- off . -PRON- do not know , 
      anyhow , that -PRON- should have care to part with -PRON- ; but if -PRON- have want 
      to -PRON- could not . so -PRON- just have to leave that detail to take care of 
      -PRON- . on the other hand , -PRON- bring a bit of plaster down and put -PRON- 
      where -PRON- be wear one -PRON- at this instant . -PRON- slip up there , 
      Mr. Holmes , clever as -PRON- be ; for if -PRON- have chance to take off 
      that plaster -PRON- would have find no cut underneath -PRON- . 

      " well , that be the situation . if -PRON- could lie low for a while and 
      then get away where -PRON- could be join by -PRON- ' widow ' -PRON- should have a 
      chance at last of live in peace for the rest of -PRON- life . these 
      devil would give -PRON- no rest so long as -PRON- be above ground ; but if 
      -PRON- see in the paper that Baldwin have get -PRON- man , there would be 
      an end of all -PRON- trouble . -PRON- have not much time to make -PRON- all clear to 
      Barker and to -PRON- wife ; but -PRON- understand enough to be able to help 
      -PRON- . -PRON- know all about this hiding place , so do ame ; but -PRON- never 
      enter -PRON- head to connect -PRON- with the matter . -PRON- retire into -PRON- , 
      and -PRON- be up to Barker to do the rest . 

      " -PRON- guess -PRON- can fill in for yourself what -PRON- do . -PRON- open the 
      window and make the mark on the sill to give an idea of how the 
      murderer escape . -PRON- be a tall order , that ; but as the bridge be up 
      there be no other way . then , when everything be fix , -PRON- ring the 
      bell for all -PRON- be worth . what happen afterward -PRON- know . and so , 
      gentleman , -PRON- can do what -PRON- please ; but -PRON- have tell -PRON- the truth 
      and the whole truth , so help -PRON- God ! what -PRON- ask -PRON- now be how do -PRON- 
      stand by the english law ? " 

      there be a silence which be break by Sherlock Holmes . 

      " the english law be in the main a just law . -PRON- will get no bad 
      than -PRON- desert from that , Mr. Douglas . but -PRON- would ask -PRON- how do 
      this man know that -PRON- live here , or how to get into -PRON- house , or 
      where to hide to get -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- know nothing of this . " 

      Holmes 's face be very white and grave . " the story be not over yet , -PRON- 
      fear , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- may find bad danger than the english law , or 
      even than -PRON- enemy from America . -PRON- see trouble before -PRON- , Mr. 
      Douglas . -PRON- will take -PRON- advice and still be on -PRON- guard . " 

      and now , -PRON- long - suffer reader , -PRON- will ask -PRON- to come away with 
      -PRON- for a time , far from the Sussex Manor House of Birlstone , and far 
      also from the year of grace in which -PRON- make -PRON- eventful journey 
      which end with the strange story of the man who have be know as 
      John Douglas . -PRON- wish -PRON- to journey back some twenty year in time , 
      and westward some thousand of mile in space , that -PRON- may lay before 
      -PRON- a singular and terrible narrative -- so singular and so terrible 
      that -PRON- may find -PRON- hard to believe that even as -PRON- tell -PRON- , even so 
      do -PRON- occur . 

      do not think that -PRON- intrude one story before another be finish . as 
      -PRON- read on -PRON- will find that this be not so . and when -PRON- have 
      detail those distant event and -PRON- have solve this mystery of the 
      past , -PRON- shall meet once more in those room on Baker Street , where 
      this , like so many other wonderful happening , will find -PRON- end . 









                                       PART II 

                                   the Scowrers 





           CHAPTER -PRON- 
           the Man 


      -PRON- be the fourth of February in the year 1875 . -PRON- have be a severe 
      winter , and the snow lie deep in the gorge of the Gilmerton 
      Mountains . the steam plough have , however , keep the railroad open , 
      and the evening train which connect the long line of coal - mining and 
      iron - work settlement be slowly groan -PRON- way up the steep 
      gradient which lead from Stagville on the plain to Vermissa , the 
      central township which lie at the head of Vermissa Valley . from this 
      point the track sweep downward to Bartons Crossing , Helmdale , and 
      the purely agricultural county of Merton . -PRON- be a single - track 
      railroad ; but at every siding -- and -PRON- be numerous -- long line of 
      truck pile with coal and iron ore tell of the hidden wealth which 
      have bring a rude population and a bustling life to this most 
      desolate corner of the United States of America . 

      for desolate -PRON- be ! little could the first pioneer who have traverse 
      -PRON- have ever imagine that the fair prairie and the most lush 
      water pasture be valueless compare to this gloomy land of black 
      crag and tangle forest . above the dark and often scarcely penetrable 
      wood upon -PRON- flank , the high , bare crown of the mountain , 
      white snow , and jag rock tower upon each flank , leave a long , 
      wind , tortuous valley in the centre . up this the little train be 
      slowly crawl . 

      the oil lamp have just be light in the lead passenger car , a long , 
      bare carriage in which some twenty or thirty people be seat . the 
      great number of these be workman return from -PRON- day 's toil 
      in the low part of the valley . at least a dozen , by -PRON- grimed 
      face and the safety lantern which -PRON- carry , proclaim 
      -PRON- miner . these sit smoke in a group and converse in low 
      voice , glance occasionally at two man on the opposite side of the 
      car , whose uniform and badge show -PRON- to be policeman . 

      several woman of the labour class and one or two traveller who 
      may have be small local storekeeper make up the rest of the 
      company , with the exception of one young man in a corner by -PRON- . 
      -PRON- be with this man that -PRON- be concerned . take a good look at -PRON- , 
      for -PRON- be worth -PRON- . 

      -PRON- be a fresh - complexioned , middle - sized young man , not far , one 
      would guess , from -PRON- thirtieth year . -PRON- have large , shrewd , humorous 
      gray eye which twinkle inquiringly from time to time as -PRON- look 
      round through -PRON- spectacle at the people about -PRON- . -PRON- be easy to 
      see that -PRON- be of a sociable and possibly simple disposition , anxious 
      to be friendly to all man . anyone could pick -PRON- at once as 
      gregarious in -PRON- habit and communicative in -PRON- nature , with a 
      quick wit and a ready smile . and yet the man who study -PRON- more 
      closely may discern a certain firmness of jaw and grim tightness 
      about the lip which would warn -PRON- that there be depth beyond , 
      and that this pleasant , brown - haired young Irishman may conceivably 
      leave -PRON- mark for good or evil upon any society to which -PRON- be 
      introduce . 

      have make one or two tentative remark to the near miner , and 
      receive only short , gruff reply , the traveller resign -PRON- 
      to uncongenial silence , stare moodily out of the window at the 
      fading landscape . 

      -PRON- be not a cheer prospect . through the grow gloom there 
      pulse the red glow of the furnace on the side of the hill . great 
      heap of slag and dump of cinder loom up on each side , with the 
      high shaft of the colliery tower above -PRON- . huddled group of 
      mean , wooden house , the window of which be begin to outline 
      -PRON- in light , be scatter here and there along the line , 
      and the frequent halting place be crowd with -PRON- swarthy 
      inhabitant . 

      the iron and coal valley of the Vermissa district be no resort 
      for the leisure or the cultured . everywhere there be stern sign 
      of the crude battle of life , the rude work to be do , and the 
      rude , strong worker who do -PRON- . 

      the young traveller gaze out into this dismal country with a face of 
      mingle repulsion and interest , which show that the scene be new 
      to -PRON- . at interval -PRON- draw from -PRON- pocket a bulky letter to which 
      -PRON- refer , and on the margin of which -PRON- scribble some note . 
      once from the back of -PRON- waist -PRON- produce something which one would 
      hardly have expect to find in the possession of so mild - mannere a 
      man . -PRON- be a navy revolver of the large size . as -PRON- turn -PRON- 
      slantwise to the light , the glint upon the rim of the copper shell 
      within the drum show that -PRON- be fully load . -PRON- quickly restore 
      -PRON- to -PRON- secret pocket , but not before -PRON- have be observe by a 
      work man who have seat -PRON- upon the adjoin bench . 

      " Hullo , mate ! " say -PRON- . " -PRON- seem heeled and ready . " 

      the young man smile with an air of embarrassment . 

      " yes , " say -PRON- , " -PRON- need -PRON- sometimes in the place -PRON- come from . " 

      " and where may that be ? " 

      " -PRON- be last from Chicago . " 

      " a stranger in these part ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " -PRON- may find -PRON- need -PRON- here , " say the workman . 

      " ah ! be that so ? " the young man seem interested . 

      " have -PRON- hear nothing of doing hereabouts ? " 

      " nothing out of the way . " 

      " why , -PRON- think the country be full of -PRON- . -PRON- will hear quick enough . 
      what make -PRON- come here ? " 

      " -PRON- hear there be always work for a willing man . " 

      " be -PRON- a member of the union ? " 

      " sure . " 

      " then -PRON- will get -PRON- job , -PRON- guess . have -PRON- any friend ? " 

      " not yet ; but -PRON- have the mean of make -PRON- . " 

      " how be that , then ? " 

      " -PRON- be one of the Eminent order of Freemen . there be no town without a 
      lodge , and where there be a lodge -PRON- will find -PRON- friend . " 

      the remark have a singular effect upon -PRON- companion . -PRON- glance round 
      suspiciously at the other in the car . the miner be still 
      whisper among -PRON- . the two police officer be doze . -PRON- 
      come across , seat -PRON- close to the young traveller , and hold 
      out -PRON- hand . 

      " put -PRON- there , " -PRON- say . 

      a hand - grip pass between the two . 

      " -PRON- see -PRON- speak the truth , " say the workman . " but -PRON- be well to make 
      certain . " -PRON- raise -PRON- right hand to -PRON- right eyebrow . the 
      traveller at once raise -PRON- left hand to -PRON- left eyebrow . 

      " dark night be unpleasant , " say the workman . 

      " yes , for stranger to travel , " the other answer . 

      " that be good enough . -PRON- be Brother Scanlan , Lodge 341 , Vermissa Valley . 
      Glad to see -PRON- in these part . " 

      " thank -PRON- . -PRON- be Brother John McMurdo , Lodge 29 , Chicago . Bodymaster 
      J. H. Scott . but -PRON- be in luck to meet a brother so early . " 

      " well , there be plenty of -PRON- about . -PRON- will not find the order more 
      flourish anywhere in the States than right here in Vermissa 
      Valley . but -PRON- could do with some lad like -PRON- . -PRON- can not understand a 
      spry man of the union find no work to do in Chicago . " 

      " -PRON- find plenty of work to do , " say McMurdo . 

      " then why do -PRON- leave ? " 

      McMurdo nod towards the policeman and smile . " -PRON- guess those chap 
      would be glad to know , " -PRON- say . 

      Scanlan groan sympathetically . " in trouble ? " -PRON- ask in a whisper . 

      " deep . " 

      " a penitentiary job ? " 

      " and the rest . " 

      " not a killing ! " 

      " -PRON- be early day to talk of such thing , " say McMurdo with the air 
      of a man who have be surprise into say more than -PRON- intend . 
      " -PRON- have -PRON- own good reason for leave Chicago , and let that be enough 
      for -PRON- . who be -PRON- that -PRON- should take -PRON- on -PRON- to ask such 
      thing ? " -PRON- gray eye gleam with sudden and dangerous anger from 
      behind -PRON- glass . 

      " all right , mate , no offense mean . the boy will think none the 
      bad of -PRON- , whatever -PRON- may have do . where be -PRON- bind for 
      now ? " 

      " Vermissa . " 

      " that be the third halt down the line . where be -PRON- stay ? " 

      McMurdo take out an envelope and hold -PRON- close to the murky oil lamp . 
      " here be the address -- Jacob Shafter , Sheridan Street . -PRON- be a boarding 
      house that be recommend by a man -PRON- know in Chicago . " 

      " well , -PRON- do not know -PRON- ; but Vermissa be out of -PRON- beat . -PRON- live at 
      Hobson 's Patch , and that be here where -PRON- be draw up . but , say , 
      there be one bit of advice -PRON- will give -PRON- before -PRON- part : if -PRON- be in 
      trouble in Vermissa , go straight to the Union House and see Boss 
      McGinty . -PRON- be the Bodymaster of Vermissa Lodge , and nothing can 
      happen in these part unless Black Jack McGinty want -PRON- . so long , 
      mate ! maybe -PRON- will meet in lodge one of these evening . but mind -PRON- 
      word : if -PRON- be in trouble , go to Boss McGinty . " 

      Scanlan descend , and McMurdo be leave once again to -PRON- thought . 
      night have now fall , and the flame of the frequent furnace be 
      roar and leaping in the darkness . against -PRON- lurid background 
      dark figure be bend and strain , twisting and turn , with 
      the motion of winch or of windlass , to the rhythm of an eternal clank 
      and roar . 

      " -PRON- guess hell must look something like that , " say a voice . 

      McMurdo turn and see that one of the policeman have shift in -PRON- 
      seat and be stare out into the fiery waste . 

      " for that matter , " say the other policeman , " -PRON- allow that hell must 
      be something like that . if there be bad devil down yonder than 
      some -PRON- could name , -PRON- be more than -PRON- would expect . -PRON- guess -PRON- be new to 
      this part , young man ? " 

      " well , what if -PRON- be ? " McMurdo answer in a surly voice . 

      " just this , mister , that -PRON- should advise -PRON- to be careful in 
      choose -PRON- friend . -PRON- do not think -PRON- would begin with Mike Scanlan or 
      -PRON- gang if -PRON- be -PRON- . " 

      " what the hell be -PRON- to -PRON- who be -PRON- friend ? " roar McMurdo in a 
      voice which bring every head in the carriage round to witness the 
      altercation . " do -PRON- ask -PRON- for -PRON- advice , or do -PRON- think -PRON- such 
      a sucker that -PRON- could not move without -PRON- ? -PRON- speak when -PRON- be 
      speak to , and by the Lord -PRON- would have to wait a long time if -PRON- be 
      -PRON- ! " -PRON- thrust out -PRON- face and grin at the patrolman like a 
      snarl dog . 

      the two policeman , heavy , good - natured man , be take aback by the 
      extraordinary vehemence with which -PRON- friendly advance have be 
      reject . 

      " no offense , stranger , " say one . " -PRON- be a warning for -PRON- own 
      good , see that -PRON- be , by -PRON- own showing , new to the place . " 

      " -PRON- be new to the place ; but -PRON- be not new to -PRON- and -PRON- kind ! " cry 
      McMurdo in cold fury . " -PRON- guess -PRON- be the same in all place , shove 
      -PRON- advice in when nobody ask for -PRON- . " 

      " maybe -PRON- will see more of -PRON- before very long , " say one of the 
      patrolman with a grin . " -PRON- be a real hand - pick one , if -PRON- be a 
      judge . " 

      " -PRON- be think the same , " remark the other . " -PRON- guess -PRON- may meet 
      again . " 

      " -PRON- be not afraid of -PRON- , and do not -PRON- think -PRON- ! " cry McMurdo . " -PRON- 
      name 's Jack McMurdo -- see ? if -PRON- want -PRON- , -PRON- will find -PRON- at Jacob 
      Shafter 's on Sheridan Street , Vermissa ; so -PRON- be not hide from -PRON- , 
      be -PRON- ? day or night -PRON- dare to look the like of -PRON- in the face -- don't 
      make any mistake about that ! " 

      there be a murmur of sympathy and admiration from the miner at the 
      dauntless demeanour of the newcomer , while the two policeman shrug 
      -PRON- shoulder and renew a conversation between -PRON- . 

      a few minute later the train run into the ill - light station , and there 
      be a general clearing ; for Vermissa be by far the large town on 
      the line . McMurdo pick up -PRON- leather gripsack and be about to 
      start off into the darkness , when one of the miner accost -PRON- . 

      " by Gar , mate ! -PRON- know how to speak to the cop , " -PRON- say in a voice 
      of awe . " -PRON- be grand to hear -PRON- . let -PRON- carry -PRON- grip and show 
      -PRON- the road . -PRON- be pass Shafter 's on the way to -PRON- own shack . " 

      there be a chorus of friendly " good - night " from the other miner as 
      -PRON- pass from the platform . before ever -PRON- have set foot in -PRON- , 
      McMurdo the turbulent have become a character in Vermissa . 

      the country have be a place of terror ; but the town be in -PRON- way 
      even more depressing . down that long valley there be at least a 
      certain gloomy grandeur in the huge fire and the cloud of drift 
      smoke , while the strength and industry of man find fitting monument 
      in the hill which -PRON- have spill by the side of -PRON- monstrous 
      excavation . but the town show a dead level of mean ugliness and 
      squalor . the broad street be churn up by the traffic into a 
      horrible rut paste of muddy snow . the sidewalk be narrow and 
      uneven . the numerous gas - lamp serve only to show more clearly a 
      long line of wooden house , each with -PRON- veranda face the street , 
      unkempt and dirty . 

      as -PRON- approach the centre of the town the scene be brighten by 
      a row of well - light store , and even more by a cluster of saloon and 
      game house , in which the miner spend -PRON- hard - earn but 
      generous wage . 

      " that be the Union House , " say the guide , point to one saloon 
      which rise almost to the dignity of be a hotel . " Jack McGinty be 
      the boss there . " 

      " what sort of a man be -PRON- ? " McMurdo ask . 

      " what ! have -PRON- never hear of the boss ? " 

      " how could -PRON- have hear of -PRON- when -PRON- know that -PRON- be a stranger in 
      these part ? " 

      " well , -PRON- think -PRON- name be know clear across the country . -PRON- be 
      be in the paper often enough . " 

      " what for ? " 

      " well , " the miner lower -PRON- voice--"over the affair . " 

      " what affair ? " 

      " Good Lord , mister ! -PRON- be queer , if -PRON- must say -PRON- without offense . 
      there be only one set of affair that -PRON- will hear of in these part , 
      and that be the affair of the Scowrers . " 

      " why , -PRON- seem to have read of the Scowrers in Chicago . a gang of 
      murderer , be -PRON- not ? " 

      " Hush , on -PRON- life ! " cry the miner , stand still in alarm , and 
      gaze in amazement at -PRON- companion . " man , -PRON- will not live long in 
      these part if -PRON- speak in the open street like that . many a man have 
      have the life beat out of -PRON- for less . " 

      " well , -PRON- know nothing about -PRON- . -PRON- be only what -PRON- have read . " 

      " and -PRON- be not say that -PRON- have not read the truth . " the man look 
      nervously round -PRON- as -PRON- speak , peer into the shadow as if -PRON- 
      fear to see some lurk danger . " if killing be murder , then God 
      know there be murder and to spare . but do not -PRON- dare to breathe the 
      name of Jack McGinty in connection with -PRON- , stranger ; for every 
      whisper go back to -PRON- , and -PRON- be not one that be likely to let -PRON- 
      pass . now , that be the house -PRON- be after , that one stand back from 
      the street . -PRON- will find old Jacob Shafter that run -PRON- as honest a 
      man as live in this township . " 

      " -PRON- thank -PRON- , " say McMurdo , and shake hand with -PRON- new 
      acquaintance -PRON- plod , gripsack in hand , up the path which lead to 
      the dwelling house , at the door of which -PRON- give a resounding knock . 

      -PRON- be open at once by someone very different from what -PRON- have 
      expect . -PRON- be a woman , young and singularly beautiful . -PRON- be of 
      the german type , blonde and fair - haired , with the piquant contrast of 
      a pair of beautiful dark eye with which -PRON- survey the stranger 
      with surprise and a pleasing embarrassment which bring a wave of 
      colour over -PRON- pale face . frame in the bright light of the open 
      doorway , -PRON- seem to McMurdo that -PRON- have never see a more beautiful 
      picture ; the more attractive for -PRON- contrast with the sordid and 
      gloomy surrounding . a lovely violet grow upon one of those black 
      slag - heap of the mine would not have seem more surprising . so 
      entrance be -PRON- that -PRON- stand stare without a word , and -PRON- be -PRON- 
      who break the silence . 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- be father , " say -PRON- with a pleasing little touch of a 
      german accent . " do -PRON- come to see -PRON- ? -PRON- be downtown . -PRON- expect -PRON- 
      back every minute . " 

      McMurdo continue to gaze at -PRON- in open admiration until -PRON- eye 
      drop in confusion before this masterful visitor . 

      " no , miss , " -PRON- say at last , " -PRON- be in no hurry to see -PRON- . but -PRON- 
      house be recommend to -PRON- for board . -PRON- think -PRON- may suit 
      -PRON- -- and now -PRON- know -PRON- will . " 

      " -PRON- be quick to make up -PRON- mind , " say -PRON- with a smile . 

      " anyone but a blind man could do as much , " the other answer . 

      -PRON- laugh at the compliment . " come right in , sir , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- be 
      Miss Ettie Shafter , Mr. Shafter 's daughter . -PRON- mother 's dead , and -PRON- 
      run the house . -PRON- can sit down by the stove in the front room until 
      father come along -- ah , here -PRON- be ! so -PRON- can fix thing with -PRON- 
      right away . " 

      a heavy , elderly man come plod up the path . in a few word 
      McMurdo explain -PRON- business . a man of the name of Murphy have give 
      -PRON- the address in Chicago . -PRON- in turn have have -PRON- from someone else . 
      Old Shafter be quite ready . the stranger make no bone about term , 
      agree at once to every condition , and be apparently fairly flush of 
      money . for seven dollar a week pay in advance -PRON- be to have board 
      and lodging . 

      so -PRON- be that McMurdo , the self - confess fugitive from justice , 
      take up -PRON- abode under the roof of the Shafters , the first step 
      which be to lead to so long and dark a train of event , end in a 
      far distant land . 





           CHAPTER II 
           the Bodymaster 


      McMurdo be a man who make -PRON- mark quickly . wherever -PRON- be the folk 
      around soon know -PRON- . within a week -PRON- have become infinitely the most 
      important person at Shafter 's . there be ten or a dozen boarder 
      there ; but -PRON- be honest foreman or commonplace clerk from the 
      store , of a very different calibre from the young Irishman . of an 
      evening when -PRON- gather together -PRON- joke be always the readiest , 
      -PRON- conversation the bright , and -PRON- song the good . -PRON- be a bear 
      boon companion , with a magnetism which draw good humour from all 
      around -PRON- . 

      and yet -PRON- show again and again , as -PRON- have show in the railway 
      carriage , a capacity for sudden , fierce anger , which compel the 
      respect and even the fear of those who meet -PRON- . for the law , too , and 
      all who be connect with -PRON- , -PRON- exhibit a bitter contempt which 
      delight some and alarm other of -PRON- fellow boarder . 

      from the first -PRON- make -PRON- evident , by -PRON- open admiration , that the 
      daughter of the house have win -PRON- heart from the instant that -PRON- have 
      set eye upon -PRON- beauty and -PRON- grace . -PRON- be no backward suitor . on 
      the second day -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- love -PRON- , and from then onward -PRON- 
      repeat the same story with an absolute disregard of what -PRON- may 
      say to discourage -PRON- . 

      " someone else ? " -PRON- would cry . " well , the bad luck for someone else ! 
      let -PRON- look out for -PRON- ! be -PRON- to lose -PRON- life 's chance and all 
      -PRON- heart 's desire for someone else ? -PRON- can keep on say no , ettie : 
      the day will come when -PRON- will say yes , and -PRON- be young enough to 
      wait . " 

      -PRON- be a dangerous suitor , with -PRON- glib irish tongue , and -PRON- 
      pretty , coax way . there be about -PRON- also that glamour of 
      experience and of mystery which attract a woman 's interest , and 
      finally -PRON- love . -PRON- could talk of the sweet valley of County 
      Monaghan from which -PRON- come , of the lovely , distant island , the low 
      hill and green meadow of which seem the more beautiful when 
      imagination view -PRON- from this place of grime and snow . 

      then -PRON- be verse in the life of the city of the North , of 
      Detroit , and the lumber camp of Michigan , and finally of Chicago , 
      where -PRON- have work in a plane mill . and afterwards come the hint 
      of romance , the feeling that strange thing have happen to -PRON- in 
      that great city , so strange and so intimate that -PRON- may not be 
      speak of . -PRON- speak wistfully of a sudden leaving , a breaking of old 
      tie , a flight into a strange world , end in this dreary valley , 
      and Ettie listen , -PRON- dark eye gleam with pity and with 
      sympathy -- those two quality which may turn so rapidly and so 
      naturally to love . 

      McMurdo have obtain a temporary job as bookkeeper ; for -PRON- be a 
      well - educate man . this keep -PRON- out most of the day , and -PRON- have not 
      find occasion yet to report -PRON- to the head of the lodge of the 
      Eminent order of Freemen . -PRON- be remind of -PRON- omission , however , 
      by a visit one evening from Mike Scanlan , the fellow member whom -PRON- 
      have meet in the train . Scanlan , the small , sharp - faced , nervous , 
      black - eyed man , seem glad to see -PRON- once more . after a glass or 
      two of whisky -PRON- broach the object of -PRON- visit . 

      " say , McMurdo , " say -PRON- , " -PRON- remember -PRON- address , so l make bold 
      to call . -PRON- be surprised that -PRON- have not report to the Bodymaster . 
      why have not -PRON- see Boss McGinty yet ? " 

      " well , -PRON- have to find a job . -PRON- have be busy . " 

      " -PRON- must find time for -PRON- if -PRON- have none for anything else . good 
      Lord , man ! -PRON- be a fool not to have be down to the Union House and 
      register -PRON- name the first morning after -PRON- come here ! if -PRON- 
      run against -PRON- -- well , -PRON- must not , that be all ! " 

      McMurdo show mild surprise . " -PRON- have be a member of the lodge for 
      over two year , Scanlan , but -PRON- never hear that duty be so 
      press as all that . " 

      " maybe not in Chicago . " 

      " well , -PRON- be the same society here . " 

      " be -PRON- ? " 

      Scanlan look at -PRON- long and fixedly . there be something sinister 
      in -PRON- eye . 

      " be not -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- that in a month 's time . -PRON- hear -PRON- have a talk with 
      the patrolman after -PRON- leave the train . " 

      " how do -PRON- know that ? " 

      " oh , -PRON- get about -- thing do get about for good and for bad in this 
      district . " 

      " well , yes . -PRON- tell the hound what -PRON- think of -PRON- . " 

      " by the Lord , -PRON- will be a man after McGinty 's heart ! " 

      " what , do -PRON- hate the police too ? " 

      Scanlan burst out laugh . " -PRON- go and see -PRON- , -PRON- lad , " say -PRON- as 
      -PRON- take -PRON- leave . " -PRON- be not the police but -PRON- that -PRON- will hate if 
      -PRON- do not ! now , take a friend 's advice and go at once ! " 

      -PRON- chance that on the same evening McMurdo have another more pressing 
      interview which urge -PRON- in the same direction . -PRON- may have be 
      that -PRON- attention to Ettie have be more evident than before , or 
      that -PRON- have gradually obtrude -PRON- into the slow mind of -PRON- 
      good german host ; but , whatever the cause , the boarding - house keeper 
      beckon the young man into -PRON- private room and start on the 
      subject without any circumlocution . 

      " -PRON- seem to -PRON- , mister , " say -PRON- , " that -PRON- be gettin ' set on -PRON- 
      ettie . be not that so , or be -PRON- wrong ? " 

      " yes , that be so , " the young man answer . 

      " Vell , -PRON- vant to tell -PRON- right now that -PRON- be not no manner of use . 
      there be someone slip in afore -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- tell -PRON- so . " 

      " Vell , -PRON- can lay that -PRON- tell -PRON- truth . but do -PRON- tell -PRON- who 
      -PRON- va ? " 

      " no , -PRON- ask -PRON- ; but -PRON- would not tell . " 

      " -PRON- dare say not , the leetle baggage ! perhaps -PRON- do not vish to 
      frighten -PRON- avay . " 

      " Frighten ! " McMurdo be on fire in a moment . 

      " ah , yes , -PRON- friend ! -PRON- need not be ashamed to be frighten of -PRON- . 
      -PRON- be Teddy Baldwin . " 

      " and who the devil be -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be a boss of Scowrers . " 

      " Scowrers ! -PRON- have hear of -PRON- before . -PRON- be Scowrers here and Scowrers 
      there , and always in a whisper ! what be -PRON- all afraid of ? who be 
      the Scowrers ? " 

      the boarding - house keeper instinctively sink -PRON- voice , as everyone 
      do who talk about that terrible society . " the Scowrers , " say -PRON- , 
      " be the Eminent order of Freemen ! " 

      the young man stare . " why , -PRON- be a member of that order -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- ! -PRON- vould never have have -PRON- in -PRON- house if -PRON- have know -PRON- -- not 
      if -PRON- vere to pay -PRON- a hundred dollar a week . " 

      " what be wrong with the order ? -PRON- be for charity and good fellowship . 
      the rule say so . " 

      " maybe in some place . not here ! " 

      " what be -PRON- here ? " 

      " -PRON- be a murder society , that be vat -PRON- be . " 

      McMurdo laugh incredulously . " how can -PRON- prove that ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " prove -PRON- ! be there not fifty murder to prove -PRON- ? vat about Milman 
      and Van Shorst , and the Nicholson family , and old Mr. Hyam , and 
      little Billy James , and the other ? prove -PRON- ! be there a man or a 
      voman in this valley vat do not know -PRON- ? " 

      " see here ! " say McMurdo earnestly . " -PRON- want -PRON- to take back what 
      -PRON- have say , or else make -PRON- good . one or the other -PRON- must do 
      before -PRON- quit this room . put -PRON- in -PRON- place . here be -PRON- , a 
      stranger in the town . -PRON- belong to a society that -PRON- know only as an 
      innocent one . -PRON- will find -PRON- through the length and breadth of the 
      States , but always as an innocent one . now , when -PRON- be count upon 
      join -PRON- here , -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be the same as a murder society 
      call the Scowrers . -PRON- guess -PRON- owe -PRON- either an apology or else an 
      explanation , Mr. Shafter . " 

      " -PRON- can but tell -PRON- vat the whole vorld know , mister . the boss of 
      the one be the boss of the other . if -PRON- offend the one , -PRON- be the 
      other vat vill strike -PRON- . -PRON- have prove -PRON- too often . " 

      " that be just gossip -- -PRON- want proof ! " say McMurdo . 

      " if -PRON- live here long -PRON- vill get -PRON- proof . but -PRON- forget that -PRON- 
      be -PRON- one of -PRON- . -PRON- vill soon be as bad as the rest . but 
      -PRON- vill find other lodging , mister . -PRON- can not have -PRON- here . be -PRON- 
      not bad enough that one of these people come court -PRON- ettie , and 
      that -PRON- dare not turn -PRON- down , but that -PRON- should have another for -PRON- 
      boarder ? yes , indeed , -PRON- shall not sleep here after to - night ! " 

      McMurdo find -PRON- under sentence of banishment both from -PRON- 
      comfortable quarter and from the girl whom -PRON- love . -PRON- find -PRON- 
      alone in the sit - room that same evening , and -PRON- pour -PRON- 
      trouble into -PRON- ear . 

      " sure , -PRON- father be after give -PRON- notice , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- be little 
      -PRON- would care if -PRON- be just -PRON- room , but indeed , Ettie , though -PRON- be 
      only a week that -PRON- have know -PRON- , -PRON- be the very breath of life to 
      -PRON- , and -PRON- can not live without -PRON- ! " 

      " oh , hush , Mr. McMurdo , do not speak so ! " say the girl . " -PRON- have tell 
      -PRON- , have -PRON- not , that -PRON- be too late ? there be another , and if -PRON- 
      have not promise to marry -PRON- at once , at least -PRON- can promise no one 
      else . " 

      " Suppose -PRON- have be first , Ettie , would -PRON- have have a chance ? " 

      the girl sink -PRON- face into -PRON- hand . " -PRON- wish to heaven that -PRON- have 
      be first ! " -PRON- sob . 

      McMurdo be down on -PRON- knee before -PRON- in an instant . " for God 's 
      sake , Ettie , let -PRON- stand at that ! " -PRON- cry . " Will -PRON- ruin -PRON- 
      life and -PRON- own for the sake of this promise ? follow -PRON- heart , 
      acushla ! ' Tis a safe guide than any promise before -PRON- know what -PRON- 
      be that -PRON- be say . " 

      -PRON- have seize Ettie 's white hand between -PRON- own strong brown one . 

      " say that -PRON- will be -PRON- , and -PRON- will face -PRON- out together ! " 

      " not here ? " 

      " yes , here . " 

      " no , no , Jack ! " -PRON- arm be round -PRON- now . " -PRON- could not be here . 
      Could -PRON- take -PRON- away ? " 

      a struggle pass for a moment over McMurdo 's face ; but -PRON- end by 
      set like granite . " no , here , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- will hold -PRON- against the 
      world , ettie , right here where -PRON- be ! " 

      " why should -PRON- not leave together ? " 

      " no , Ettie , -PRON- can not leave here . " 

      " but why ? " 

      " -PRON- would never hold -PRON- head up again if -PRON- feel that -PRON- have be drive 
      out . besides , what be there to be afraid of ? be -PRON- not free folk in 
      a free country ? if -PRON- love -PRON- , and -PRON- -PRON- , who will dare to come 
      between ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know , Jack . -PRON- have be here too short a time . -PRON- do not 
      know this Baldwin . -PRON- do not know McGinty and -PRON- Scowrers . " 

      " no , -PRON- do not know -PRON- , and -PRON- do not fear -PRON- , and -PRON- do not believe in 
      -PRON- ! " say McMurdo . " -PRON- have live among rough man , -PRON- darling , and 
      instead of fear -PRON- -PRON- have always end that -PRON- have fear 
      -PRON- -- always , Ettie . -PRON- be mad on the face of -PRON- ! if these man , as -PRON- 
      father say , have do crime after crime in the valley , and if 
      everyone know -PRON- by name , how come -PRON- that none be bring to 
      justice ? -PRON- answer -PRON- that , Ettie ! " 

      " because no witness dare to appear against -PRON- . -PRON- would not live a 
      month if -PRON- do . also because -PRON- have always -PRON- own man to swear 
      that the accuse one be far from the scene of the crime . but surely , 
      Jack , -PRON- must have read all this . -PRON- have understand that every paper 
      in the United States be write about -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- have read something , -PRON- be true ; but -PRON- have think -PRON- be a 
      story . maybe these man have some reason in what -PRON- do . maybe -PRON- 
      be wrong and have no other way to help -PRON- . " 

      " oh , Jack , do not let -PRON- hear -PRON- speak so ! that be how -PRON- speak -- the 
      other one ! " 

      " Baldwin -- -PRON- speak like that , do -PRON- ? " 

      " and that be why -PRON- loathe -PRON- so . oh , Jack , now -PRON- can tell -PRON- the 
      truth . -PRON- loathe -PRON- with all -PRON- heart ; but -PRON- fear -PRON- also . -PRON- fear 
      -PRON- for -PRON- ; but above all -PRON- fear -PRON- for father . -PRON- know that some 
      great sorrow would come upon -PRON- if -PRON- dare to say what -PRON- really feel . 
      that be why -PRON- have put -PRON- off with half - promise . -PRON- be in real 
      truth -PRON- only hope . but if -PRON- would fly with -PRON- , Jack , -PRON- could 
      take father with -PRON- and live forever far from the power of these 
      wicked man . " 

      again there be the struggle upon McMurdo 's face , and again -PRON- set 
      like granite . " no harm shall come to -PRON- , Ettie -- nor to -PRON- father 
      either . as to wicked man , -PRON- expect -PRON- may find that -PRON- be as bad as 
      the bad of -PRON- before -PRON- be through . " 

      " no , no , Jack ! -PRON- would trust -PRON- anywhere . " 

      McMurdo laugh bitterly . " Good Lord ! how little -PRON- know of -PRON- ! -PRON- 
      innocent soul , -PRON- darling , could not even guess what be pass in 
      mine . but , hullo , who be the visitor ? " 

      the door have open suddenly , and a young fellow come swagger in 
      with the air of one who be the master . -PRON- be a handsome , dash 
      young man of about the same age and build as McMurdo -PRON- . under 
      -PRON- broad - brim black feel hat , which -PRON- have not trouble to 
      remove , a handsome face with fierce , domineering eye and a curved 
      hawk - bill of a nose look savagely at the pair who sit by the stove . 

      Ettie have jump to -PRON- foot full of confusion and alarm . " -PRON- be glad 
      to see -PRON- , Mr. Baldwin , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be early than -PRON- have 
      think . come and sit down . " 

      Baldwin stand with -PRON- hand on -PRON- hip look at McMurdo . " who be 
      this ? " -PRON- ask curtly . 

      " -PRON- be a friend of -PRON- , Mr. Baldwin , a new boarder here . Mr. McMurdo , 
      may -PRON- introduce -PRON- to Mr. Baldwin ? " 

      the young man nod in surly fashion to each other . 

      " maybe Miss Ettie have tell -PRON- how -PRON- be with -PRON- ? " say Baldwin . 

      " -PRON- do not understand that there be any relation between -PRON- . " 

      " do not -PRON- ? well , -PRON- can understand -PRON- now . -PRON- can take -PRON- from -PRON- 
      that this young lady be -PRON- , and -PRON- will find -PRON- a very fine evening 
      for a walk . " 

      " thank -PRON- , -PRON- be in no humour for a walk . " 

      " be not -PRON- ? " the man 's savage eye be blaze with anger . " maybe 
      -PRON- be in a humour for a fight , Mr. Boarder ! " 

      " that -PRON- be ! " cry McMurdo , spring to -PRON- foot . " -PRON- never say a 
      more welcome word . " 

      " for God 's sake , Jack ! oh , for God 's sake ! " cry poor , distract 
      Ettie . " oh , Jack , Jack , -PRON- will hurt -PRON- ! " 

      " oh , -PRON- be Jack , be -PRON- ? " say Baldwin with an oath . " -PRON- have come to 
      that already , have -PRON- ? " 

      " oh , Ted , be reasonable -- be kind ! for -PRON- sake , Ted , if ever -PRON- love 
      -PRON- , be big - hearted and forgiving ! " 

      " -PRON- think , Ettie , that if -PRON- be to leave -PRON- alone -PRON- could get this 
      thing settle , " say McMurdo quietly . " or maybe , Mr. Baldwin , -PRON- 
      will take a turn down the street with -PRON- . -PRON- be a fine evening , and 
      there be some open ground beyond the next block . " 

      " -PRON- will get even with -PRON- without need to dirty -PRON- hand , " say -PRON- 
      enemy . " -PRON- will wish -PRON- have never set foot in this house before -PRON- be 
      through with -PRON- ! " 

      " no time like the present , " cry McMurdo . 

      " -PRON- will choose -PRON- own time , mister . -PRON- can leave the time to -PRON- . see 
      here ! " -PRON- suddenly roll up -PRON- sleeve and show upon -PRON- forearm a 
      peculiar sign which appear to have be brand there . -PRON- be a 
      circle with a triangle within -PRON- . " d'you know what that mean ? " 

      " -PRON- neither know nor care ! " 

      " well , -PRON- will know , -PRON- will promise -PRON- that . -PRON- will not be much old , 
      either . perhaps Miss Ettie can tell -PRON- something about -PRON- . as to 
      -PRON- , Ettie , -PRON- will come back to -PRON- on -PRON- knee -- d'ye hear , 
      girl?--on -PRON- knee -- and then -PRON- will tell -PRON- what -PRON- punishment may 
      be . -PRON- have sow -- and by the Lord , -PRON- will see that -PRON- reap ! " -PRON- 
      glance at -PRON- both in fury . then -PRON- turn upon -PRON- heel , and an 
      instant later the outer door have bang behind -PRON- . 

      for a few moment McMurdo and the girl stand in silence . then -PRON- 
      throw -PRON- arm around -PRON- . 

      " oh , Jack , how brave -PRON- be ! but -PRON- be no use , -PRON- must fly ! 
      to - night -- Jack -- to - night ! -PRON- be -PRON- only hope . -PRON- will have -PRON- 
      life . -PRON- read -PRON- in -PRON- horrible eye . what chance have -PRON- against a 
      dozen of -PRON- , with Boss McGinty and all the power of the lodge 
      behind -PRON- ? " 

      McMurdo disengage -PRON- hand , kiss -PRON- , and gently push -PRON- back 
      into a chair . " there , acushla , there ! do not be disturb or fear for 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be a Freeman -PRON- . -PRON- be after tell -PRON- father about -PRON- . 
      maybe -PRON- be no well than the other ; so do not make a saint of -PRON- . 
      perhaps -PRON- hate -PRON- too , now that -PRON- have tell -PRON- as much ? " 

      " hate -PRON- , Jack ? while life last -PRON- could never do that ! -PRON- have hear 
      that there be no harm in be a Freeman anywhere but here ; so why 
      should -PRON- think the bad of -PRON- for that ? but if -PRON- be a Freeman , 
      Jack , why should -PRON- not go down and make a friend of Boss McGinty ? 
      oh , hurry , Jack , hurry ! get -PRON- word in first , or the hound will be 
      on -PRON- trail . " 

      " -PRON- be think the same thing , " say McMurdo . " -PRON- will go right now and 
      fix -PRON- . -PRON- can tell -PRON- father that -PRON- will sleep here to - night and 
      find some other quarter in the morning . " 

      the bar of McGinty 's saloon be crowd as usual , for -PRON- be the 
      favourite loafing place of all the rough element of the town . the 
      man be popular ; for -PRON- have a rough , jovial disposition which form 
      a mask , cover a great deal which lie behind -PRON- . but apart from 
      this popularity , the fear in which -PRON- be hold throughout the 
      township , and indeed down the whole thirty mile of the valley and 
      past the mountain on each side of -PRON- , be enough in -PRON- to fill 
      -PRON- bar ; for none could afford to neglect -PRON- good will . 

      besides those secret power which -PRON- be universally believe that -PRON- 
      exercise in so pitiless a fashion , -PRON- be a high public official , a 
      municipal councillor , and a commissioner of road , elect to the 
      office through the vote of the ruffian who in turn expect to 
      receive favour at -PRON- hand . assessment and taxis be enormous ; 
      the public work be notoriously neglect , the account be 
      slur over by bribe auditor , and the decent citizen be 
      terrorize into pay public blackmail , and hold -PRON- tongue lest 
      some bad thing befall -PRON- . 

      thus -PRON- be that , year by year , Boss McGinty 's diamond pin become 
      more obtrusive , -PRON- gold chain more weighty across a more gorgeous 
      vest , and -PRON- saloon stretch farther and farther , until -PRON- 
      threaten to absorb one whole side of the Market Square . 

      McMurdo push open the swinging door of the saloon and make -PRON- way 
      amid the crowd of man within , through an atmosphere blur with 
      tobacco smoke and heavy with the smell of spirit . the place be 
      brilliantly light , and the huge , heavily gilt mirror upon every 
      wall reflect and multiply the garish illumination . there be 
      several bartender in -PRON- shirt sleeve , hard at work mix drink 
      for the lounger who fringe the broad , brass - trim counter . 

      at the far end , with -PRON- body rest upon the bar and a cigar stuck 
      at an acute angle from the corner of -PRON- mouth , stand a tall , strong , 
      heavily build man who could be none other than the famous McGinty 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be a black - man giant , bearded to the cheek - bone , and 
      with a shock of raven hair which fall to -PRON- collar . -PRON- complexion 
      be as swarthy as that of an Italian , and -PRON- eye be of a strange 
      dead black , which , combine with a slight squint , give -PRON- a 
      particularly sinister appearance . 

      all else in the man -- -PRON- noble proportion , -PRON- fine feature , and 
      -PRON- frank bearing -- fit in with that jovial , man - to - man manner 
      which -PRON- affect . here , one would say , be a bluff , honest fellow , 
      whose heart would be sound however rude -PRON- outspoken word may 
      seem . -PRON- be only when those dead , dark eye , deep and remorseless , 
      be turn upon a man that -PRON- shrink within -PRON- , feel that -PRON- 
      be face to face with an infinite possibility of latent evil , with a 
      strength and courage and cunne behind -PRON- which make -PRON- a thousand 
      time more deadly . 

      have have a good look at -PRON- man , McMurdo elbow -PRON- way forward 
      with -PRON- usual careless audacity , and push -PRON- through the 
      little group of courtier who be fawn upon the powerful boss , 
      laugh uproariously at the small of -PRON- joke . the young 
      stranger 's bold gray eye look back fearlessly through -PRON- 
      glass at the deadly black one which turn sharply upon -PRON- . 

      " well , young man , -PRON- can not call -PRON- face to mind . " 

      " -PRON- be new here , Mr. McGinty . " 

      " -PRON- be not so new that -PRON- can not give a gentleman -PRON- proper 
      title . " 

      " -PRON- be Councillor McGinty , young man , " say a voice from the group . 

      " -PRON- be sorry , Councillor . -PRON- be strange to the way of the place . but -PRON- 
      be advise to see -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- see -PRON- . this be all there be . what d'you think of -PRON- ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be early day . if -PRON- heart be as big as -PRON- body , and 
      -PRON- soul as fine as -PRON- face , then -PRON- would ask for nothing well , " 
      say McMurdo . 

      " by Gar ! -PRON- have get an irish tongue in -PRON- head anyhow , " cry the 
      saloon - keeper , not quite certain whether to humour this audacious 
      visitor or to stand upon -PRON- dignity . 

      " so -PRON- be good enough to pass -PRON- appearance ? " 

      " sure , " say McMurdo . 

      " and -PRON- be tell to see -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be . " 

      " and who tell -PRON- ? " 

      " Brother Scanlan of Lodge 341 , Vermissa . -PRON- drink -PRON- health 
      Councillor , and to -PRON- well acquaintance . " -PRON- raise a glass with 
      which -PRON- have be serve to -PRON- lip and elevate -PRON- little finger 
      as -PRON- drink -PRON- . 

      McGinty , who have be watch -PRON- narrowly , raise -PRON- thick black 
      eyebrow . " oh , -PRON- be like that , be -PRON- ? " say -PRON- . " -PRON- will have to look a 
      bit closer into this , Mister-- " 

      " McMurdo . " 

      " a bit closer , Mr. McMurdo ; for -PRON- do not take folk on trust in these 
      part , nor believe all -PRON- be tell neither . come in here for a moment , 
      behind the bar . " 

      there be a small room there , line with barrel . McGinty carefully 
      close the door , and then seat -PRON- on one of -PRON- , bite 
      thoughtfully on -PRON- cigar and survey -PRON- companion with those 
      disquieting eye . for a couple of minute -PRON- sit in complete silence . 
      McMurdo bear the inspection cheerfully , one hand in -PRON- coat pocket , 
      the other twist -PRON- brown moustache . suddenly McGinty stoop and 
      produce a wicked - look revolver . 

      " see here , -PRON- joker , " say -PRON- , " if -PRON- think -PRON- be play any 
      game on -PRON- , -PRON- would be short work for -PRON- . " 

      " this be a strange welcome , " McMurdo answer with some dignity , " for 
      the Bodymaster of a lodge of Freemen to give to a strange brother . " 

      " ay , but -PRON- be just that same that -PRON- have to prove , " say McGinty , 
      " and God help -PRON- if -PRON- fail ! where be -PRON- make ? " 

      " Lodge 29 , Chicago . " 

      " when ? " 

      " June 24 , 1872 . " 

      " what Bodymaster ? " 

      " James H. Scott . " 

      " who be -PRON- district ruler ? " 

      " Bartholomew Wilson . " 

      " hum ! -PRON- seem glib enough in -PRON- test . what be -PRON- do here ? " 

      " Working , the same as -PRON- -- but a poor job . " 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- back answer quick enough . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be always quick of speech . " 

      " be -PRON- quick of action ? " 

      " -PRON- have have that name among those that know -PRON- good . " 

      " well , -PRON- may try -PRON- sooner than -PRON- think . have -PRON- hear anything 
      of the lodge in these part ? " 

      " -PRON- have hear that -PRON- take a man to be a brother . " 

      " true for -PRON- , Mr. McMurdo . why do -PRON- leave Chicago ? " 

      " -PRON- be damned if -PRON- tell -PRON- that ! " 

      McGinty open -PRON- eye . -PRON- be not use to be answer in such 
      fashion , and -PRON- amuse -PRON- . " why will not -PRON- tell -PRON- ? " 

      " because no brother may tell another a lie . " 

      " then the truth be too bad to tell ? " 

      " -PRON- can put -PRON- that way if -PRON- like . " 

      " see here , mister , -PRON- can not expect -PRON- , as Bodymaster , to pass into 
      the lodge a man for whose past -PRON- can not answer . " 

      McMurdo look puzzle . then -PRON- take a worn newspaper cut from an 
      inner pocket . 

      " -PRON- would not squeal on a fellow ? " say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- will wipe -PRON- hand across -PRON- face if -PRON- say such word to -PRON- ! " 
      cry McGinty hotly . 

      " -PRON- be right , Councillor , " say McMurdo meekly . " -PRON- should 
      apologize . -PRON- speak without thought . well , -PRON- know that -PRON- be safe in 
      -PRON- hand . look at that clip . " 

      McGinty glance -PRON- eye over the account of the shooting of one 
      Jonas Pinto , in the Lake Saloon , Market Street , Chicago , in the New 
      Year week of 1874 . 

      " -PRON- work ? " -PRON- ask , as -PRON- hand back the paper . 

      McMurdo nod . 

      " why do -PRON- shoot -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be help Uncle Sam to make dollar . maybe -PRON- be not as good 
      gold as -PRON- , but -PRON- look as well and be cheap to make . this 
      man Pinto help -PRON- to shove the queer-- " 

      " to do what ? " 

      " well , -PRON- mean to pass the dollar out into circulation . then -PRON- 
      say -PRON- would split . maybe -PRON- do split . -PRON- do not wait to see . -PRON- just 
      kill -PRON- and light out for the coal country . " 

      " why the coal country ? " 

      " because -PRON- would read in the paper that -PRON- be not too particular in 
      those part . " 

      McGinty laugh . " -PRON- be first a coiner and then a murderer , and 
      -PRON- come to these part because -PRON- think -PRON- would be welcome . " 

      " that be about the size of -PRON- , " McMurdo answer . 

      " well , -PRON- guess -PRON- will go far . say , can -PRON- make those dollar yet ? " 

      McMurdo take half a dozen from -PRON- pocket . " those never pass the 
      Philadelphia mint , " say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- do not say ! " McGinty hold -PRON- to the light in -PRON- enormous hand , 
      which be hairy as a gorilla 's . " -PRON- can see no difference . Gar ! -PRON- will 
      be a mighty useful brother , -PRON- be think ! -PRON- can do with a bad man or 
      two among -PRON- , Friend McMurdo : for there be time when -PRON- have to 
      take -PRON- own part . -PRON- would soon be against the wall if -PRON- do not shove 
      back at those that be push -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- guess -PRON- will do -PRON- share of shove with the rest of the 
      boy . " 

      " -PRON- seem to have a good nerve . -PRON- do not squirm when -PRON- shove this 
      gun at -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be not -PRON- that be in danger . " 

      " who then ? " 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- , Councillor . " McMurdo draw a cocked pistol from the side 
      pocket of -PRON- peajacket . " -PRON- be cover -PRON- all the time . -PRON- guess -PRON- 
      shot would have be as quick as -PRON- . " 

      " by Gar ! " McGinty flush an angry red and then burst into a roar of 
      laughter . " say , -PRON- have have no such holy terror come to hand this many 
      a year . -PRON- reckon the lodge will learn to be proud of -PRON- ... well , 
      what the hell do -PRON- want ? and can not -PRON- speak alone with a gentleman 
      for five minute but -PRON- must butt in on -PRON- ? " 

      the bartender stand abash . " -PRON- be sorry , Councillor , but -PRON- be Ted 
      Baldwin . -PRON- say -PRON- must see -PRON- this very minute . " 

      the message be unnecessary ; for the set , cruel face of the man 
      -PRON- be look over the servant 's shoulder . -PRON- push the 
      bartender out and close the door on -PRON- . 

      " so , " say -PRON- with a furious glance at McMurdo , " -PRON- get here first , 
      do -PRON- ? -PRON- have a word to say to -PRON- , Councillor , about this man . " 

      " then say -PRON- here and now before -PRON- face , " cry McMurdo . 

      " -PRON- will say -PRON- at -PRON- own time , in -PRON- own way . " 

      " tut ! tut ! " say McGinty , get off -PRON- barrel . " this will never 
      do . -PRON- have a new brother here , Baldwin , and -PRON- be not for -PRON- to greet 
      -PRON- in such fashion . hold out -PRON- hand , man , and make -PRON- up ! " 

      " never ! " cry Baldwin in a fury . 

      " -PRON- have offer to fight -PRON- if -PRON- think -PRON- have wrong -PRON- , " say 
      McMurdo . " -PRON- will fight -PRON- with fist , or , if that will not satisfy -PRON- , 
      -PRON- will fight -PRON- any other way -PRON- choose . now , -PRON- will leave -PRON- to -PRON- , 
      Councillor , to judge between -PRON- as a Bodymaster should . " 

      " what be -PRON- , then ? " 

      " a young lady . -PRON- be free to choose for -PRON- . " 

      " be -PRON- ? " cry Baldwin . 

      " as between two brother of the lodge -PRON- should say that -PRON- be , " 
      say the Boss . 

      " oh , that be -PRON- ruling , be -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- be , Ted Baldwin , " say McGinty , with a wicked stare . " be -PRON- 
      -PRON- that would dispute -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- would throw over one that have stand by -PRON- this five year in 
      favour of a man that -PRON- never see before in -PRON- life ? -PRON- be not 
      Bodymaster for life , Jack McGinty , and by God ! when next -PRON- come to 
      a vote-- " 

      the Councillor spring at -PRON- like a tiger . -PRON- hand close round the 
      other 's neck , and -PRON- hurl -PRON- back across one of the barrel . in 
      -PRON- mad fury -PRON- would have squeeze the life out of -PRON- if McMurdo 
      have not interfere . 

      " Easy , Councillor ! for heaven 's sake , go easy ! " -PRON- cry , as -PRON- 
      drag -PRON- back . 

      McGinty release -PRON- hold , and Baldwin , cow and shake gasping for 
      breath , and shiver in every limb , as one who have look over the 
      very edge of death , sit up on the barrel over which -PRON- have be 
      hurl . 

      " -PRON- have be ask for -PRON- this many a day , Ted Baldwin -- now -PRON- have 
      get -PRON- ! " cry McGinty , -PRON- huge chest rise and fall . " maybe -PRON- 
      think if -PRON- be vote down from Bodymaster -PRON- would find -PRON- in 
      -PRON- shoe . -PRON- be for the lodge to say that . but so long as -PRON- be the 
      chief -PRON- will have no man lift -PRON- voice against -PRON- or -PRON- ruling . " 

      " -PRON- have nothing against -PRON- , " mumble Baldwin , feel -PRON- throat . 

      " well , then , " cry the other , relapse in a moment into a bluff 
      joviality , " -PRON- be all good friend again and there be an end of the 
      matter . " 

      -PRON- take a bottle of champagne down from the shelf and twist out the 
      cork . 

      " see now , " -PRON- continue , as -PRON- fill three high glass . " let -PRON- 
      drink the quarrel toast of the lodge . after that , as -PRON- know , 
      there can be no bad blood between -PRON- . now , then the left hand on the 
      apple of -PRON- throat . -PRON- say to -PRON- , Ted Baldwin , what be the offense , 
      sir ? " 

      " the cloud be heavy , " answer Baldwin . 

      " but -PRON- will forever brighten . " 

      " and this -PRON- swear ! " 

      the man drink -PRON- glass , and the same ceremony be perform 
      between Baldwin and McMurdo 

      " there ! " cry McGinty , rub -PRON- hand . " that be the end of the 
      black blood . -PRON- come under lodge discipline if -PRON- go further , and 
      that be a heavy hand in these part , as Brother Baldwin know -- and as 
      -PRON- will damn soon find out , Brother McMurdo , if -PRON- ask for 
      trouble ! " 

      " Faith , -PRON- would be slow to do that , " say McMurdo . -PRON- hold out -PRON- hand 
      to Baldwin . " -PRON- be quick to quarrel and quick to forgive . -PRON- be -PRON- hot 
      irish blood , -PRON- tell -PRON- . but -PRON- be over for -PRON- , and -PRON- bear no 
      grudge . " 

      Baldwin have to take the proffer hand , for the baleful eye of the 
      terrible Boss be upon -PRON- . but -PRON- sullen face show how little the 
      word of the other have move -PRON- . 

      McGinty clap -PRON- both on the shoulder . " tut ! these girl ! these 
      girl ! " -PRON- cry . " to think that the same petticoat should come 
      between two of -PRON- boy ! -PRON- be the devil 's own luck ! well , -PRON- be the 
      colleen inside of -PRON- that must settle the question for -PRON- be outside 
      the jurisdiction of a Bodymaster -- and the Lord be praise for that ! 
      -PRON- have enough on -PRON- , without the woman as well . -PRON- will have to be 
      affiliate to Lodge 341 , Brother McMurdo . -PRON- have -PRON- own way and 
      method , different from Chicago . Saturday night be -PRON- meeting , and 
      if -PRON- come then , -PRON- will make -PRON- free forever of the Vermissa 
      Valley . " 





           CHAPTER III 
           Lodge 341 , Vermissa 


      on the day follow the evening which have contain so many exciting 
      event , McMurdo move -PRON- lodging from old Jacob Shafter 's and take 
      up -PRON- quarter at the Widow MacNamara 's on the extreme outskirt of 
      the town . Scanlan , -PRON- original acquaintance aboard the train , have 
      occasion shortly afterwards to move into Vermissa , and the two lodge 
      together . there be no other boarder , and the hostess be an 
      easy - go old Irishwoman who leave -PRON- to -PRON- ; so that -PRON- 
      have a freedom for speech and action welcome to man who have secret in 
      common . 

      Shafter have relent to the extent of let McMurdo come to -PRON- 
      meal there when -PRON- like ; so that -PRON- intercourse with Ettie be by 
      no mean broken . on the contrary , -PRON- draw closer and more intimate as 
      the week go by . 

      in -PRON- bedroom at -PRON- new abode McMurdo feel -PRON- safe to take out the 
      coin mould , and under many a pledge of secrecy a number of 
      brother from the lodge be allow to come in and see -PRON- , each 
      carry away in -PRON- pocket some example of the false money , so 
      cunningly strike that there be never the slight difficulty or 
      danger in pass -PRON- . why , with such a wonderful art at -PRON- command , 
      McMurdo should condescend to work at all be a perpetual mystery to 
      -PRON- companion ; though -PRON- make -PRON- clear to anyone who ask -PRON- that 
      if -PRON- live without any visible mean -PRON- would very quickly bring the 
      police upon -PRON- track . 

      one policeman be indeed after -PRON- already ; but the incident , as luck 
      would have -PRON- , do the adventurer a great deal more good than harm . 
      after the first introduction there be few evening when -PRON- do not 
      find -PRON- way to McGinty 's saloon , there to make close acquaintance 
      with " the boy , " which be the jovial title by which the dangerous 
      gang who infest the place be know to one another . -PRON- dashing 
      manner and fearlessness of speech make -PRON- a favourite with -PRON- all ; 
      while the rapid and scientific way in which -PRON- polish off -PRON- 
      antagonist in an " all in " bar - room scrap earn the respect of that 
      rough community . another incident , however , raise -PRON- even higher in 
      -PRON- estimation . 

      just at the crowded hour one night , the door open and a man enter 
      with the quiet blue uniform and peaked cap of the mine police . this 
      be a special body raise by the railway and colliery owner to 
      supplement the effort of the ordinary civil police , who be 
      perfectly helpless in the face of the organize ruffianism which 
      terrorize the district . there be a hush as -PRON- enter , and many a 
      curious glance be cast at -PRON- ; but the relation between policeman 
      and criminal be peculiar in some part of the States , and McGinty 
      -PRON- stand behind -PRON- counter , show no surprise when the 
      policeman enrol -PRON- among -PRON- customer . 

      " a straight whisky , for the night be bitter , " say the police 
      officer . " -PRON- do not think -PRON- have meet before , Councillor ? " 

      " -PRON- will be the new captain ? " say McGinty . 

      " that be so . -PRON- be look to -PRON- , Councillor , and to the other 
      lead citizen , to help -PRON- in uphold law and order in this 
      township . Captain Marvin be -PRON- name . " 

      " -PRON- would do better without -PRON- , Captain Marvin , " say McGinty coldly ; 
      " for -PRON- have -PRON- own police of the township , and no need for any 
      import good . what be -PRON- but the pay tool of the capitalist , 
      hire by -PRON- to club or shoot -PRON- poor fellow citizen ? " 

      " well , well , -PRON- will not argue about that , " say the police officer 
      good - humouredly . " -PRON- expect -PRON- all do -PRON- duty same as -PRON- see -PRON- ; but 
      -PRON- can not all see -PRON- the same . " -PRON- have drunk off -PRON- glass and have 
      turn to go , when -PRON- eye fall upon the face of Jack McMurdo , who 
      be scowl at -PRON- elbow . " hullo ! Hullo ! " -PRON- cry , look -PRON- up 
      and down . " here be an old acquaintance ! " 

      McMurdo shrink away from -PRON- . " -PRON- be never a friend to -PRON- nor any 
      other cursed copper in -PRON- life , " say -PRON- . 

      " an acquaintance be not always a friend , " say the police captain , 
      grin . " -PRON- be Jack McMurdo of Chicago , right enough , and do not 
      -PRON- deny -PRON- ! " 

      McMurdo shrug -PRON- shoulder . " -PRON- be not deny -PRON- , " say -PRON- . " d'ye 
      think -PRON- be ashamed of -PRON- own name ? " 

      " -PRON- have get good cause to be , anyhow . " 

      " what the devil d'you mean by that ? " -PRON- roar with -PRON- fist 
      clench . 

      " no , no , Jack , bluster will not do with -PRON- . -PRON- be an officer in Chicago 
      before ever -PRON- come to this darn coal bunker , and -PRON- know a Chicago 
      crook when -PRON- see one . " 

      McMurdo 's face fall . " do not tell -PRON- that -PRON- be Marvin of the Chicago 
      Central ! " -PRON- cry . 

      " just the same old Teddy Marvin , at -PRON- service . -PRON- have not 
      forget the shooting of Jonas Pinto up there . " 

      " -PRON- never shoot -PRON- . " 

      " do -PRON- not ? that be good impartial evidence , be not -PRON- ? well , -PRON- 
      death come in uncommon handy for -PRON- , or -PRON- would have have -PRON- for 
      shove the queer . well , -PRON- can let that be bygone ; for , between -PRON- 
      and -PRON- -- and perhaps -PRON- be go further than -PRON- duty in say -PRON- -- -PRON- 
      could get no clear case against -PRON- , and Chicago 's open to -PRON- 
      to - morrow . " 

      " -PRON- be very well where -PRON- be . " 

      " well , -PRON- have give -PRON- the pointer , and -PRON- be a sulky dog not to 
      thank -PRON- for -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- suppose -PRON- mean well , and -PRON- do thank -PRON- , " say McMurdo in 
      no very gracious manner . 

      " -PRON- be mum with -PRON- so long as -PRON- see -PRON- live on the straight , " say 
      the captain . " but , by the Lord ! if -PRON- get off after this , -PRON- be 
      another story ! so good - night to -PRON- -- and goodnight , Councillor . " 

      -PRON- leave the bar - room ; but not before -PRON- have create a local hero . 
      McMurdo 's deed in far Chicago have be whisper before . -PRON- have put 
      off all question with a smile , as one who do not wish to have 
      greatness thrust upon -PRON- . but now the thing be officially 
      confirm . the bar loafer crowd round -PRON- and shake -PRON- heartily 
      by the hand . -PRON- be free of the community from that time on . -PRON- could 
      drink hard and show little trace of -PRON- ; but that evening , have -PRON- 
      mate Scanlan not be at hand to lead -PRON- home , the fete hero would 
      surely have spend -PRON- night under the bar . 

      on a Saturday night McMurdo be introduce to the lodge . -PRON- have 
      think to pass in without ceremony as be an initiate of Chicago ; 
      but there be particular rite in Vermissa of which -PRON- be proud , 
      and these have to be undergo by every postulant . the assembly meet in 
      a large room reserve for such purpose at the Union House . some 
      sixty member assemble at Vermissa ; but that by no means represent 
      the full strength of the organization , for there be several other 
      lodge in the valley , and other across the mountain on each side , 
      who exchange member when any serious business be afoot , so that a 
      crime may be do by man who be stranger to the locality . 
      altogether there be not less than five hundred scatter over the 
      coal district . 

      in the bare assembly room the man be gather round a long table . 
      at the side be a second one laden with bottle and glass , on which 
      some member of the company be already turn -PRON- eye . McGinty 
      sit at the head with a flat black velvet cap upon -PRON- shock of 
      tangle black hair , and a coloured purple stole round -PRON- neck , so 
      that -PRON- seem to be a priest preside over some diabolical ritual . 
      to right and leave of -PRON- be the high lodge official , the cruel , 
      handsome face of Ted Baldwin among -PRON- . each of these wear some 
      scarf or medallion as emblem of -PRON- office . 

      -PRON- be , for the most part , man of mature age ; but the rest of the 
      company consist of young fellow from eighteen to twenty - five , the 
      ready and capable agent who carry out the command of -PRON- 
      senior . among the old man be many whose feature show the 
      tigerish , lawless soul within ; but look at the rank and file -PRON- 
      be difficult to believe that these eager and open - faced young 
      fellow be in very truth a dangerous gang of murderer , whose mind 
      have suffer such complete moral perversion that -PRON- take a horrible 
      pride in -PRON- proficiency at the business , and look with deep 
      respect at the man who have the reputation of make what -PRON- call 
      " a clean job . " 

      to -PRON- contorted nature -PRON- have become a spirited and chivalrous 
      thing to volunteer for service against some man who have never injure 
      -PRON- , and whom in many case -PRON- have never see in -PRON- life . the 
      crime commit , -PRON- quarrel as to who have actually strike the 
      fatal blow , and amuse one another and the company by describe the 
      cry and contortion of the murder man . 

      at first -PRON- have show some secrecy in -PRON- arrangement ; but at 
      the time which this narrative describe -PRON- proceeding be 
      extraordinarily open , for the repeat failure of the law have prove 
      to -PRON- that , on the one hand , no one would dare to witness against 
      -PRON- , and on the other -PRON- have an unlimited number of stanch 
      witness upon whom -PRON- could call , and a well - fill treasure chest 
      from which -PRON- could draw the fund to engage the good legal talent 
      in the state . in ten long year of outrage there have be no single 
      conviction , and the only danger that ever threaten the Scowrers lie 
      in the victim -PRON- -- who , however outnumber and take by 
      surprise , may and occasionally do leave -PRON- mark upon -PRON- 
      assailant . 

      McMurdo have be warn that some ordeal lie before -PRON- ; but no one 
      would tell -PRON- in what -PRON- consist . -PRON- be lead now into an outer 
      room by two solemn brother . through the plank partition -PRON- could 
      hear the murmur of many voice from the assembly within . once or 
      twice -PRON- catch the sound of -PRON- own name , and -PRON- know that -PRON- be 
      discuss -PRON- candidacy . then there enter an inner guard with a 
      green and gold sash across -PRON- chest . 

      " the Bodymaster order that -PRON- shall be truss , blind , and 
      enter , " say -PRON- . 

      the three of -PRON- remove -PRON- coat , turn up the sleeve of -PRON- right 
      arm , and finally pass a rope round above the elbow and make -PRON- 
      fast . -PRON- next place a thick black cap right over -PRON- head and the 
      upper part of -PRON- face , so that -PRON- could see nothing . -PRON- be then lead 
      into the assembly hall . 

      -PRON- be pitch dark and very oppressive under -PRON- hood . -PRON- hear the 
      rustle and murmur of the people round -PRON- , and then the voice of 
      McGinty sound dull and distant through the covering of -PRON- ear . 

      " John McMurdo , " say the voice , " be -PRON- already a member of the 
      ancient order of Freemen ? " 

      -PRON- bow in assent . 

      " be -PRON- lodge no . 29 , Chicago ? " 

      -PRON- bow again . 

      " dark night be unpleasant , " say the voice . 

      " yes , for stranger to travel , " -PRON- answer . 

      " the cloud be heavy . " 

      " yes , a storm be approach . " 

      " be the brother satisfied ? " ask the Bodymaster . 

      there be a general murmur of assent . 

      " -PRON- know , Brother , by -PRON- sign and by -PRON- countersign that -PRON- be 
      indeed one of -PRON- , " say McGinty . " -PRON- would have -PRON- know , however , 
      that in this county and in other county of these part -PRON- have 
      certain rite , and also certain duty of -PRON- own which call for good 
      man . be -PRON- ready to be test ? " 

      " -PRON- be . " 

      " be -PRON- of stout heart ? " 

      " -PRON- be . " 

      " take a stride forward to prove -PRON- . " 

      as the word be say -PRON- feel two hard point in front of -PRON- eye , 
      press upon -PRON- so that -PRON- appear as if -PRON- could not move 
      forward without a danger of lose -PRON- . none the less , -PRON- nerve 
      -PRON- to step resolutely out , and as -PRON- do so the pressure melt 
      away . there be a low murmur of applause . 

      " -PRON- be of stout heart , " say the voice . " Can -PRON- bear pain ? " 

      " as well as another , " -PRON- answer . 

      " test -PRON- ! " 

      -PRON- be all -PRON- could do to keep -PRON- from scream out , for an 
      agonizing pain shoot through -PRON- forearm . -PRON- nearly faint at the 
      sudden shock of -PRON- ; but -PRON- bite -PRON- lip and clench -PRON- hand to hide 
      -PRON- agony . 

      " -PRON- can take more than that , " say -PRON- . 

      this time there be loud applause . a finer first appearance have never 
      be make in the lodge . hand clap -PRON- on the back , and the hood 
      be pluck from -PRON- head . -PRON- stand blink and smile amid the 
      congratulation of the brother . 

      " one last word , Brother McMurdo , " say McGinty . " -PRON- have already 
      swear the oath of secrecy and fidelity , and -PRON- be aware that the 
      punishment for any breach of -PRON- be instant and inevitable death ? " 

      " -PRON- be , " say McMurdo . 

      " and -PRON- accept the rule of the Bodymaster for the time be under 
      all circumstance ? " 

      " -PRON- do . " 

      " then in the name of Lodge 341 , Vermissa , -PRON- welcome -PRON- to -PRON- 
      privilege and debate . -PRON- will put the liquor on the table , Brother 
      Scanlan , and -PRON- will drink to -PRON- worthy brother . " 

      McMurdo 's coat have be bring to -PRON- ; but before put -PRON- on -PRON- 
      examine -PRON- right arm , which still smart heavily . there on the 
      flesh of the forearm be a circle with a triangle within -PRON- , deep and 
      red , as the branding iron have leave -PRON- . one or two of -PRON- neighbour 
      pull up -PRON- sleeve and show -PRON- own lodge mark . 

      " -PRON- have all have -PRON- , " say one ; " but not all as brave as -PRON- over -PRON- . " 

      " tut ! -PRON- be nothing , " say -PRON- ; but -PRON- burn and ache all the same . 

      when the drink which follow the ceremony of initiation have all 
      be dispose of , the business of the lodge proceed . McMurdo , 
      accustom only to the prosaic performance of Chicago , listen with 
      open ear and more surprise than -PRON- venture to show to what 
      follow . 

      " the first business on the agenda paper , " say McGinty , " be to read 
      the following letter from Division Master Windle of Merton County 
      Lodge 249 . -PRON- say : 

      " dear Sir : 
      " there be a job to be do on Andrew Rae of Rae & Sturmash , coal 
      owner near this place . -PRON- will remember that -PRON- lodge owe -PRON- a 
      return , have have the service of two brother in the matter of the 
      patrolman last fall . -PRON- will send two good man , -PRON- will be take 
      charge of by Treasurer Higgins of this lodge , whose address -PRON- know . 
      -PRON- will show -PRON- when to act and where . yours in freedom , 
      " J. W. Windle D. M. A. O. F. 

      " Windle have never refuse -PRON- when -PRON- have have occasion to ask for the 
      loan of a man or two , and -PRON- be not for -PRON- to refuse -PRON- . " McGinty 
      pause and look round the room with -PRON- dull , malevolent eye . " who 
      will volunteer for the job ? " 

      several young fellow hold up -PRON- hand . the Bodymaster look at 
      -PRON- with an approve smile . 

      " -PRON- will do , Tiger Cormac . if -PRON- handle -PRON- as well as -PRON- do the 
      last , -PRON- will not be wrong . and -PRON- , Wilson . " 

      " -PRON- have no pistol , " say the volunteer , a mere boy in -PRON- teen . 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- first , be -PRON- not ? well , -PRON- have to be blood some time . 
      -PRON- will be a great start for -PRON- . as to the pistol , -PRON- will find -PRON- 
      wait for -PRON- , or -PRON- be mistaken . if -PRON- report -PRON- on Monday , 
      -PRON- will be time enough . -PRON- will get a great welcome when -PRON- return . " 

      " any reward this time ? " ask Cormac , a thick - set , dark - faced , 
      brutal - look young man , whose ferocity have earn -PRON- the nickname 
      of " Tiger . " 

      " never mind the reward . -PRON- just do -PRON- for the honour of the thing . 
      maybe when -PRON- be do there will be a few odd dollar at the bottom 
      of the box . " 

      " what have the man do ? " ask young Wilson . 

      " sure , -PRON- be not for the like of -PRON- to ask what the man have do . -PRON- 
      have be judge over there . that be no business of -PRON- . all -PRON- have 
      to do be to carry -PRON- out for -PRON- , same as -PRON- would for -PRON- . 
      speak of that , two brother from the Merton lodge be come over 
      to -PRON- next week to do some business in this quarter . " 

      " who be -PRON- ? " ask someone . 

      " Faith , -PRON- be wise not to ask . if -PRON- know nothing , -PRON- can testify 
      nothing , and no trouble can come of -PRON- . but -PRON- be man who will 
      make a clean job when -PRON- be about -PRON- . " 

      " and time , too ! " cry Ted Baldwin . " folk be gettin ' out of hand in 
      these part . -PRON- be only last week that three of -PRON- man be turn 
      off by Foreman Blaker . -PRON- be be owe -PRON- a long time , and -PRON- will get 
      -PRON- full and proper . " 

      " get what ? " McMurdo whisper to -PRON- neighbour . 

      " the business end of a buckshot cartridge ! " cry the man with a loud 
      laugh . " what think -PRON- of -PRON- way , brother ? " 

      McMurdo 's criminal soul seem to have already absorb the spirit of 
      the vile association of which -PRON- be now a member . " -PRON- like -PRON- well , " 
      say -PRON- . " ' tis a proper place for a lad of mettle . " 

      several of those who sit around hear -PRON- word and applaud -PRON- . 

      " what be that ? " cry the black - maned Bodymaster from the end of the 
      table . 

      " ' Tis -PRON- new brother , sir , who find -PRON- way to -PRON- taste . " 

      McMurdo rise to -PRON- foot for an instant . " -PRON- would say , Eminent 
      Bodymaster , that if a man should be want -PRON- should take -PRON- as an 
      honour to be choose to help the lodge . " 

      there be great applause at this . -PRON- be feel that a new sun be 
      push -PRON- rim above the horizon . to some of the elder -PRON- seem 
      that the progress be a little too rapid . 

      " -PRON- would move , " say the secretary , Harraway , a vulture - face old 
      graybeard who sit near the chairman , " that Brother McMurdo should 
      wait until -PRON- be the good pleasure of the lodge to employ -PRON- . " 

      " sure , that be what -PRON- mean ; -PRON- be in -PRON- hand , " say McMurdo . 

      " -PRON- time will come , Brother , " say the chairman . " -PRON- have mark 
      -PRON- down as a willing man , and -PRON- believe that -PRON- will do good work 
      in these part . there be a small matter to - night in which -PRON- may 
      take a hand if -PRON- so please -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- will wait for something that be worth while . " 

      " -PRON- can come to - night , anyhow , and -PRON- will help -PRON- to know what -PRON- 
      stand for in this community . -PRON- will make the announcement later . 
      meanwhile , " -PRON- glance at -PRON- agenda paper , " -PRON- have one or two more 
      point to bring before the meeting . first of all , -PRON- will ask the 
      treasurer as to -PRON- bank balance . there be the pension to Jim 
      Carnaway 's widow . -PRON- be strike down do the work of the lodge , and 
      -PRON- be for -PRON- to see that -PRON- be not the loser . " 

      " Jim be shoot last month when -PRON- try to kill Chester Wilcox of 
      Marley Creek , " McMurdo 's neighbour inform -PRON- . 

      " the fund be good at the moment , " say the treasurer , with the 
      bankbook in front of -PRON- . " the firm have be generous of late . Max 
      Linder & Co. pay five hundred to be leave alone . Walker Brothers send 
      in a hundred ; but -PRON- take -PRON- on -PRON- to return -PRON- and ask for five . 
      if -PRON- do not hear by Wednesday , -PRON- winding gear may get out of 
      order . -PRON- have to burn -PRON- breaker last year before -PRON- become 
      reasonable . then the West Section Coaling Company have pay -PRON- annual 
      contribution . -PRON- have enough on hand to meet any obligation . " 

      " what about Archie Swindon ? " ask a brother . 

      " -PRON- have sell out and leave the district . the old devil leave a note for 
      -PRON- to say that -PRON- have rather be a free crossing sweeper in New York 
      than a large mine owner under the power of a ring of blackmailer . by 
      Gar ! -PRON- be as well that -PRON- make a break for -PRON- before the note 
      reach -PRON- ! -PRON- guess -PRON- will not show -PRON- face in this valley again . " 

      an elderly , clean - shaved man with a kindly face and a good brow rise 
      from the end of the table which face the chairman . " Mr. Treasurer , " 
      -PRON- ask , " may -PRON- ask who have buy the property of this man that -PRON- 
      have drive out of the district ? " 

      " yes , Brother Morris . -PRON- have be buy by the State & Merton County 
      Railroad Company . " 

      " and who buy the mine of Todman and of Lee that come into the 
      market in the same way last year ? " 

      " the same company , Brother Morris . " 

      " and who buy the ironwork of Manson and of Shuman and of Van 
      Deher and of Atwood , which have all be give up of late ? " 

      " -PRON- be all buy by the West Gilmerton General Mining Company . " 

      " -PRON- do not see , Brother Morris , " say the chairman , " that -PRON- matter to 
      -PRON- who buy -PRON- , since -PRON- can not carry -PRON- out of the district . " 

      " with all respect to -PRON- , Eminent Bodymaster , -PRON- think -PRON- may matter 
      very much to -PRON- . this process have be go on now for ten long 
      year . -PRON- be gradually drive all the small man out of trade . what 
      be the result ? -PRON- find in -PRON- place great company like the 
      railroad or the General Iron , who have -PRON- director in New York or 
      Philadelphia , and care nothing for -PRON- threat . -PRON- can take -PRON- out of 
      -PRON- local boss , but -PRON- only mean that other will be send in 
      -PRON- stead . and -PRON- be make -PRON- dangerous for -PRON- . the small 
      man could not harm -PRON- . -PRON- have not the money nor the power . so long 
      as -PRON- do not squeeze -PRON- too dry , -PRON- would stay on under -PRON- 
      power . but if these big company find that -PRON- stand between -PRON- and 
      -PRON- profit , -PRON- will spare no pain and no expense to hunt -PRON- 
      down and bring -PRON- to court . " 

      there be a hush at these ominous word , and every face darken as 
      gloomy look be exchange . so omnipotent and unchallenged have -PRON- 
      be that the very thought that there be possible retribution in the 
      background have be banish from -PRON- mind . and yet the idea 
      strike a chill to the most reckless of -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- advice , " the speaker continue , " that -PRON- go easier upon the 
      small man . on the day that -PRON- have all be drive out the power of 
      this society will have be break . " 

      unwelcome truth be not popular . there be angry cry as the 
      speaker resume -PRON- seat . McGinty rise with gloom upon -PRON- brow . 

      " Brother Morris , " say -PRON- , " -PRON- be always a croaker . so long as the 
      member of this lodge stand together there be no power in the United 
      States that can touch -PRON- . sure , have -PRON- not try -PRON- often enough 
      in the law court ? -PRON- expect the big company will find -PRON- easy to 
      pay than to fight , same as the little company do . and now , 
      Brethren , " McGinty take off -PRON- black velvet cap and -PRON- stole as -PRON- 
      speak , " this lodge have finish -PRON- business for the evening , save 
      for one small matter which may be mention when -PRON- be part . the 
      time have now come for fraternal refreshment and for harmony . " 

      Strange indeed be human nature . here be these man , to whom murder 
      be familiar , who again and again have strike down the father of the 
      family , some man against whom -PRON- have no personal feeling , without 
      one thought of compunction or of compassion for -PRON- weeping wife or 
      helpless child , and yet the tender or pathetic in music could move 
      -PRON- to tear . McMurdo have a fine tenor voice , and if -PRON- have fail 
      to gain the good will of the lodge before , -PRON- could no longer have 
      be withhold after -PRON- have thrill -PRON- with " -PRON- be sit on the 
      Stile , Mary , " and " on the Banks of Allan Water . " 

      in -PRON- very first night the new recruit have make -PRON- one of the 
      most popular of the brother , mark already for advancement and high 
      office . there be other quality need , however , besides those of 
      good fellowship , to make a worthy Freeman , and of these -PRON- be give 
      an example before the evening be over . the whisky bottle have pass 
      round many time , and the man be flush and ripe for mischief when 
      -PRON- Bodymaster rise once more to address -PRON- . 

      " Boys , " say -PRON- , " there be one man in this town that want trim 
      up , and -PRON- be for -PRON- to see that -PRON- get -PRON- . -PRON- be speak of James 
      Stanger of the Herald . -PRON- have see how -PRON- be be open -PRON- mouth 
      against -PRON- again ? " 

      there be a murmur of assent , with many a muttered oath . McGinty take 
      a slip of paper from -PRON- waistcoat pocket . 

                                  Law and Order ! 

      that be how -PRON- head -PRON- . 

                  " Reign of terror in the coal and iron district 
      " twelve year have now elapse since the first assassination which 
      prove the existence of a criminal organization in -PRON- midst . from 
      that day these outrage have never cease , until now -PRON- have 
      reach a pitch which make -PRON- the opprobrium of the civilized world . 
      be -PRON- for such result as this that -PRON- great country welcome to -PRON- 
      bosom the alien who fly from the despotism of Europe ? be -PRON- that 
      -PRON- shall -PRON- become tyrant over the very man who have give 
      -PRON- shelter , and that a state of terrorism and lawlessness should be 
      establish under the very shadow of the sacred fold of the starry 
      Flag of Freedom which would raise horror in -PRON- mind if -PRON- read of 
      -PRON- as exist under the most effete monarchy of the East ? the man 
      be know . the organization be patent and public . how long be -PRON- to 
      endure -PRON- ? Can -PRON- forever live-- 

      sure , -PRON- have read enough of the slush ! " cry the chairman , toss the 
      paper down upon the table . " that be what -PRON- say of -PRON- . the question 
      -PRON- be ask -PRON- be what shall -PRON- say to -PRON- ? " 

      " kill -PRON- ! " cry a dozen fierce voice . 

      " -PRON- protest against that , " say Brother Morris , the man of the good 
      brow and shave face . " -PRON- tell -PRON- , Brethren , that -PRON- hand be too 
      heavy in this valley , and that there will come a point where in 
      self - defense every man will unite to crush -PRON- out . James Stanger be 
      an old man . -PRON- be respect in the township and the district . -PRON- 
      paper stand for all that be solid in the valley . if that man be 
      strike down , there will be a stir through this state that will only 
      end with -PRON- destruction . " 

      " and how would -PRON- bring about -PRON- destruction , Mr. Standback ? " 
      cry McGinty . " be -PRON- by the police ? sure , half of -PRON- be in -PRON- 
      pay and half of -PRON- afraid of -PRON- . or be -PRON- by the law court and the 
      judge ? have not -PRON- try that before now , and what ever come of -PRON- ? " 

      " there be a Judge Lynch that may try the case , " say Brother 
      Morris . 

      a general shout of anger greet the suggestion . 

      " -PRON- have but to raise -PRON- finger , " cry McGinty , " and -PRON- could put two 
      hundred man into this town that would clear -PRON- out from end to end . " 
      then suddenly raise -PRON- voice and bend -PRON- huge black brow into 
      a terrible frown , " see here , Brother Morris , -PRON- have -PRON- eye on -PRON- , 
      and have have for some time ! -PRON- have no heart -PRON- , and -PRON- try to 
      take the heart out of other . -PRON- will be an ill day for -PRON- , Brother 
      Morris , when -PRON- own name come on -PRON- agenda paper , and -PRON- be 
      think that -PRON- be just there that -PRON- ought to place -PRON- . " 

      Morris have turn deadly pale , and -PRON- knee seem to give way under 
      -PRON- as -PRON- fall back into -PRON- chair . -PRON- raise -PRON- glass in -PRON- 
      tremble hand and drink before -PRON- could answer . " -PRON- apologize , 
      Eminent Bodymaster , to -PRON- and to every brother in this lodge if -PRON- 
      have say more than -PRON- should . -PRON- be a faithful member -- -PRON- all know 
      that -- and -PRON- be -PRON- fear lest evil come to the lodge which make -PRON- 
      speak in anxious word . but -PRON- have great trust in -PRON- judgment 
      than in -PRON- own , Eminent Bodymaster , and -PRON- promise -PRON- that -PRON- will not 
      offend again . " 

      the Bodymaster 's scowl relaxed as -PRON- listen to the humble word . 
      " very good , Brother Morris . -PRON- be -PRON- that would be sorry if -PRON- 
      be needful to give -PRON- a lesson . but so long as -PRON- be in this chair 
      -PRON- shall be a united lodge in word and in deed . and now , boy , " -PRON- 
      continue , look round at the company , " -PRON- will say this much , that if 
      Stanger get -PRON- full desert there would be more trouble than -PRON- need 
      ask for . these editor hang together , and every journal in the state 
      would be cry out for police and troop . but -PRON- guess -PRON- can give 
      -PRON- a pretty severe warning . Will -PRON- fix -PRON- , Brother Baldwin ? " 

      " sure ! " say the young man eagerly . 

      " how many will -PRON- take ? " 

      " half a dozen , and two to guard the door . -PRON- will come , gow , and 
      -PRON- , Mansel , and -PRON- , Scanlan , and the two Willabys . " 

      " -PRON- promise the new brother -PRON- should go , " say the chairman . 

      Ted Baldwin look at McMurdo with eye which show that -PRON- have not 
      forget nor forgive . " well , -PRON- can come if -PRON- want , " -PRON- say in a 
      surly voice . " that be enough . the sooner -PRON- get to work the well . " 

      the company break up with shout and yell and snatch of drunken 
      song . the bar be still crowd with reveller , and many of the 
      brother remain there . the little band who have be tell off for 
      duty pass out into the street , proceed in two and three along 
      the sidewalk so as not to provoke attention . -PRON- be a bitterly cold 
      night , with a half - moon shine brilliantly in a frosty , 
      star - spangle sky . the man stop and gather in a yard which face 
      a high building . the word " Vermissa Herald " be print in gold 
      letter between the brightly light window . from within come the 
      clank of the printing press . 

      " here , -PRON- , " say Baldwin to McMurdo , " -PRON- can stand below at the 
      door and see that the road be keep open for -PRON- . Arthur Willaby can 
      stay with -PRON- . -PRON- other come with -PRON- . have no fear , boy ; for -PRON- 
      have a dozen witness that -PRON- be in the Union Bar at this very 
      moment . " 

      -PRON- be nearly midnight , and the street be desert save for one or 
      two reveller upon -PRON- way home . the party cross the road , and , 
      push open the door of the newspaper office , Baldwin and -PRON- man 
      rush in and up the stair which face -PRON- . McMurdo and another 
      remain below . from the room above come a shout , a cry for help , and 
      then the sound of trample foot and of fall chair . an instant 
      later a gray - haired man rush out on the landing . 

      -PRON- be seize before -PRON- could get farther , and -PRON- spectacle come 
      tinkle down to McMurdo 's foot . there be a thud and a groan . -PRON- be 
      on -PRON- face , and half a dozen stick be clatter together as -PRON- 
      fall upon -PRON- . -PRON- writhe , and -PRON- long , thin limb quiver under 
      the blow . the other cease at last ; but Baldwin , -PRON- cruel face set 
      in an infernal smile , be hack at the man 's head , which -PRON- vainly 
      endeavour to defend with -PRON- arm . -PRON- white hair be dabble with 
      patch of blood . Baldwin be still stoop over -PRON- victim , put 
      in a short , vicious blow whenever -PRON- could see a part expose , when 
      McMurdo dash up the stair and push -PRON- back . 

      " -PRON- will kill the man , " say -PRON- . " drop -PRON- ! " 

      Baldwin look at -PRON- in amazement . " curse -PRON- ! " -PRON- cry . " who be 
      -PRON- to interfere -- -PRON- that be new to the lodge ? stand back ! " -PRON- 
      raise -PRON- stick ; but McMurdo have whip -PRON- pistol out of -PRON- hip 
      pocket . 

      " stand back -PRON- ! " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- will blow -PRON- face in if -PRON- lay a 
      hand on -PRON- . as to the lodge , be not -PRON- the order of the Bodymaster 
      that the man be not to be kill -- and what be -PRON- do but kill 
      -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be truth -PRON- say , " remark one of the man . 

      " by Gar ! -PRON- would best hurry yourself ! " cry the man below . " the 
      window be all light up , and -PRON- will have the whole town here 
      inside of five minute . " 

      there be indeed the sound of shouting in the street , and a little 
      group of compositor and pressman be form in the hall below and 
      nerve -PRON- to action . leave the limp and motionless body of the 
      editor at the head of the stair , the criminal rush down and make 
      -PRON- way swiftly along the street . have reach the Union House , 
      some of -PRON- mix with the crowd in McGinty 's saloon , whisper 
      across the bar to the Boss that the job have be well carry 
      through . other , and among -PRON- McMurdo , break away into side 
      street , and so by devious path to -PRON- own home . 





           CHAPTER IV 
           the Valley of Fear 


      when McMurdo awake next morning -PRON- have good reason to remember -PRON- 
      initiation into the lodge . -PRON- head ache with the effect of the 
      drink , and -PRON- arm , where -PRON- have be brand , be hot and swollen . 
      have -PRON- own peculiar source of income , -PRON- be irregular in -PRON- 
      attendance at -PRON- work ; so -PRON- have a late breakfast , and remain at 
      home for the morning write a long letter to a friend . afterwards -PRON- 
      read the Daily Herald . in a special column put in at the last moment 
      -PRON- read : 

             Outrage at the herald office -- Editor seriously injure 

      -PRON- be a short account of the fact with which -PRON- be -PRON- more 
      familiar than the writer could have be . -PRON- end with the 
      statement : 

      the matter be now in the hand of the police ; but -PRON- can hardly be 
      hope that -PRON- exertion will be attend by any well result 
      than in the past . some of the man be recognize , and there be hope 
      that a conviction may be obtain . the source of the outrage be , -PRON- 
      nee hardly be say , that infamous society which have hold this 
      community in bondage for so long a period , and against which the 
      Herald have take so uncompromise a stand . Mr. Stanger 's many 
      friend will rejoice to hear that , though -PRON- have be cruelly and 
      brutally beat , and though -PRON- have sustain severe injury about 
      the head , there be no immediate danger to -PRON- life . 

      below -PRON- state that a guard of police , arm with Winchester rifle , 
      have be requisition for the defense of the office . 

      McMurdo have lay down the paper , and be light -PRON- pipe with a 
      hand which be shaky from the excess of the previous evening , when 
      there be a knock outside , and -PRON- landlady bring to -PRON- a note 
      which have just be hand in by a lad . -PRON- be unsigned , and run 
      thus : 

      -PRON- should wish to speak to -PRON- , but would rather not do so in -PRON- 
      house . -PRON- will find -PRON- beside the flagstaff upon Miller Hill . if -PRON- 
      will come there now , -PRON- have something which -PRON- be important for -PRON- 
      to hear and for -PRON- to say . 

      McMurdo read the note twice with the utmost surprise ; for -PRON- could 
      not imagine what -PRON- mean or who be the author of -PRON- . have -PRON- be in 
      a feminine hand , -PRON- may have imagine that -PRON- be the beginning of 
      one of those adventure which have be familiar enough in -PRON- past 
      life . but -PRON- be the writing of a man , and of a well educate one , 
      too . finally , after some hesitation , -PRON- determine to see the matter 
      through . 

      Miller Hill be an ill - keep public park in the very centre of the 
      town . in summer -PRON- be a favourite resort of the people ; but in winter 
      -PRON- be desolate enough . from the top of -PRON- one have a view not only of 
      the whole straggling , grimy town , but of the wind valley beneath , 
      with -PRON- scatter mine and factory blacken the snow on each 
      side of -PRON- , and of the wooded and white - cap range flank -PRON- . 

      McMurdo stroll up the wind path hedge in with evergreen until 
      -PRON- reach the desert restaurant which form the centre of summer 
      gaiety . beside -PRON- be a bare flagstaff , and underneath -PRON- a man , -PRON- 
      hat draw down and the collar of -PRON- overcoat turn up . when -PRON- 
      turn -PRON- face McMurdo see that -PRON- be Brother Morris , -PRON- who have 
      incur the anger of the Bodymaster the night before . the lodge sign 
      be give and exchange as -PRON- meet . 

      " -PRON- want to have a word with -PRON- , Mr. McMurdo , " say the old man , 
      speak with a hesitation which show that -PRON- be on delicate 
      ground . " -PRON- be kind of -PRON- to come . " 

      " why do -PRON- not put -PRON- name to the note ? " 

      " one have to be cautious , mister . one never know in time like these 
      how a thing may come back to one . one never know either who to trust 
      or who not to trust . " 

      " surely one may trust brother of the lodge . " 

      " no , no , not always , " cry Morris with vehemence . " whatever -PRON- say , 
      even what -PRON- think , seem to go back to that man McGinty . " 

      " look here ! " say McMurdo sternly . " -PRON- be only last night , as -PRON- 
      know well , that -PRON- swear good faith to -PRON- Bodymaster . Would -PRON- be 
      ask -PRON- to break -PRON- oath ? " 

      " if that be the view -PRON- take , " say Morris sadly , " -PRON- can only say 
      that -PRON- be sorry -PRON- give -PRON- the trouble to come and meet -PRON- . thing 
      have come to a bad pass when two free citizen can not speak -PRON- 
      thought to each other . " 

      McMurdo , who have be watch -PRON- companion very narrowly , relaxed 
      somewhat in -PRON- bearing . " sure -PRON- speak for -PRON- only , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- 
      be a newcomer , as -PRON- know , and -PRON- be strange to -PRON- all . -PRON- be not for 
      -PRON- to open -PRON- mouth , Mr. Morris , and if -PRON- think well to say 
      anything to -PRON- -PRON- be here to hear -PRON- . " 

      " and to take -PRON- back to Boss McGinty ! " say Morris bitterly . 

      " indeed , then , -PRON- do -PRON- injustice there , " cry McMurdo . " for -PRON- 
      -PRON- be loyal to the lodge , and so -PRON- tell -PRON- straight ; but -PRON- would be a 
      poor creature if -PRON- be to repeat to any other what -PRON- may say to 
      -PRON- in confidence . -PRON- will go no further than -PRON- ; though -PRON- warn -PRON- 
      that -PRON- may get neither help nor sympathy . " 

      " -PRON- have give up look for either the one or the other , " say 
      Morris . " -PRON- may be put -PRON- very life in -PRON- hand by what -PRON- say ; 
      but , bad as -PRON- be -- and -PRON- seem to -PRON- last night that -PRON- be 
      shape to be as bad as the bad -- still -PRON- be new to -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      conscience can not yet be as harden as -PRON- . that be why -PRON- 
      think to speak with -PRON- . " 

      " well , what have -PRON- to say ? " 

      " if -PRON- give -PRON- away , may a curse be on -PRON- ! " 

      " sure , -PRON- say -PRON- would not . " 

      " -PRON- would ask -PRON- , then , when -PRON- join the Freeman 's society in 
      Chicago and swear vow of charity and fidelity , do ever -PRON- cross 
      -PRON- mind that -PRON- may find -PRON- would lead -PRON- to crime ? " 

      " if -PRON- call -PRON- crime , " McMurdo answer . 

      " call -PRON- crime ! " cry Morris , -PRON- voice vibrate with passion . " -PRON- 
      have see little of -PRON- if -PRON- can call -PRON- anything else . be -PRON- crime 
      last night when a man old enough to be -PRON- father be beat till 
      the blood drip from -PRON- white hair ? be that crime -- or what else 
      would -PRON- call -PRON- ? " 

      " there be some would say -PRON- be war , " say McMurdo , " a war of two 
      class with all in , so that each strike as best -PRON- could . " 

      " well , do -PRON- think of such a thing when -PRON- join the Freeman 's 
      society at Chicago ? " 

      " no , -PRON- be bind to say -PRON- do not . " 

      " nor do -PRON- when -PRON- join -PRON- at Philadelphia . -PRON- be just a benefit 
      club and a meeting place for one 's fellow . then -PRON- hear of this 
      place -- curse the hour that the name first fall upon -PRON- ears!--and -PRON- 
      come to better -PRON- ! -PRON- God ! to better -PRON- ! -PRON- wife and three 
      child come with -PRON- . -PRON- start a dry good store on Market Square , 
      and -PRON- prosper well . the word have go round that -PRON- be a Freeman , 
      and -PRON- be force to join the local lodge , same as -PRON- do last night . 
      -PRON- have the badge of shame on -PRON- forearm and something bad brand on 
      -PRON- heart . -PRON- find that -PRON- be under the order of a black villain and 
      catch in a meshwork of crime . what could -PRON- do ? every word -PRON- say to 
      make thing better be take as treason , same as -PRON- be last night . -PRON- 
      can not get away ; for all -PRON- have in the world be in -PRON- store . if -PRON- 
      leave the society , -PRON- know well that -PRON- mean murder to -PRON- , and God 
      know what to -PRON- wife and child . oh , man , -PRON- be awful -- awful ! " -PRON- 
      put -PRON- hand to -PRON- face , and -PRON- body shake with convulsive sobs . 

      McMurdo shrug -PRON- shoulder . " -PRON- be too soft for the job , " say 
      -PRON- . " -PRON- be the wrong sort for such work . " 

      " -PRON- have a conscience and a religion ; but -PRON- make -PRON- a criminal among 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be choose for a job . if -PRON- back down -PRON- know well what would 
      come to -PRON- . maybe -PRON- be a coward . maybe -PRON- be the thought of -PRON- poor 
      little woman and the child that make -PRON- one . anyhow -PRON- go . -PRON- 
      guess -PRON- will haunt -PRON- forever . 

      " -PRON- be a lonely house , twenty mile from here , over the range 
      yonder . -PRON- be tell off for the door , same as -PRON- be last night . 
      -PRON- could not trust -PRON- with the job . the other go in . when -PRON- 
      come out -PRON- hand be crimson to the wrist . as -PRON- turn away a 
      child be scream out of the house behind -PRON- . -PRON- be a boy of five 
      who have see -PRON- father murder . -PRON- nearly faint with the horror of 
      -PRON- , and yet -PRON- have to keep a bold and smile face ; for well -PRON- know 
      that if -PRON- do not -PRON- would be out of -PRON- house that -PRON- would come 
      next with -PRON- bloody hand and -PRON- would be -PRON- little Fred that 
      would be scream for -PRON- father . 

      " but -PRON- be a criminal then , part sharer in a murder , lose forever in 
      this world , and lose also in the next . -PRON- be a good Catholic ; but the 
      priest would have no word with -PRON- when -PRON- hear -PRON- be a Scowrer , and 
      -PRON- be excommunicate from -PRON- faith . that be how -PRON- stand with -PRON- . and 
      -PRON- see -PRON- go down the same road , and -PRON- ask -PRON- what the end be to 
      be . be -PRON- ready to be a cold - blooded murderer also , or can -PRON- do 
      anything to stop -PRON- ? " 

      " what would -PRON- do ? " ask McMurdo abruptly . " -PRON- would not inform ? " 

      " God forbid ! " cry Morris . " sure , the very thought would cost -PRON- -PRON- 
      life . " 

      " that be well , " say McMurdo . " -PRON- be think that -PRON- be a weak man 
      and that -PRON- make too much of the matter . " 

      " too much ! wait till -PRON- have live here longer . look down the 
      valley ! see the cloud of a hundred chimney that overshadow -PRON- ! -PRON- 
      tell -PRON- that the cloud of murder hang thick and low than that 
      over the head of the people . -PRON- be the Valley of Fear , the Valley of 
      Death . the terror be in the heart of the people from the dusk to the 
      dawn . wait , young man , and -PRON- will learn for -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- will let -PRON- know what -PRON- think when -PRON- have see more , " say 
      McMurdo carelessly . " what be very clear be that -PRON- be not the man 
      for the place , and that the sooner -PRON- sell out -- if -PRON- only get a 
      dime a dollar for what the business be worth -- the well -PRON- will be 
      for -PRON- . what -PRON- have say be safe with -PRON- ; but , by Gar ! if -PRON- 
      think -PRON- be an informer-- " 

      " no , no ! " cry Morris piteously . 

      " well , let -PRON- rest at that . -PRON- will bear what -PRON- have say in mind , and 
      maybe some day -PRON- will come back to -PRON- . -PRON- expect -PRON- mean kindly by 
      speak to -PRON- like this . now -PRON- will be get home . " 

      " one word before -PRON- go , " say Morris . " -PRON- may have be see 
      together . -PRON- may want to know what -PRON- have speak about . " 

      " ah ! that be well think of . " 

      " -PRON- offer -PRON- a clerkship in -PRON- store . " 

      " and -PRON- refuse -PRON- . that be -PRON- business . well , so long , Brother Morris , 
      and may -PRON- find thing go better with -PRON- in the future . " 

      that same afternoon , as McMurdo sit smoking , lose in thought beside 
      the stove of -PRON- sitting - room , the door swing open and -PRON- framework 
      be fill with the huge figure of Boss McGinty . -PRON- pass the sign , 
      and then seat -PRON- opposite to the young man -PRON- look at -PRON- 
      steadily for some time , a look which be as steadily return . 

      " -PRON- be not much of a visitor , Brother McMurdo , " -PRON- say at last . " -PRON- 
      guess -PRON- be too busy over the folk that visit -PRON- . but -PRON- think -PRON- would 
      stretch a point and drop down to see -PRON- in -PRON- own house . " 

      " -PRON- be proud to see -PRON- here , Councillor , " McMurdo answer heartily , 
      bring -PRON- whisky bottle out of the cupboard . " -PRON- be an honour that 
      -PRON- have not expect . " 

      " how be the arm ? " ask the Boss . 

      McMurdo make a wry face . " well , -PRON- be not forget -PRON- , " -PRON- say ; " but 
      -PRON- be worth -PRON- . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be worth -PRON- , " the other answer , " to those that be loyal 
      and go through with -PRON- and be a help to the lodge . what be -PRON- 
      speak to Brother Morris about on Miller Hill this morning ? " 

      the question come so suddenly that -PRON- be well that -PRON- have -PRON- answer 
      prepared . -PRON- burst into a hearty laugh . " Morris do not know -PRON- could 
      earn a living here at home . -PRON- shall not know either ; for -PRON- have get too 
      much conscience for the like of -PRON- . but -PRON- be a good - hearted old 
      chap . -PRON- be -PRON- idea that -PRON- be at a loose end , and that -PRON- would do 
      -PRON- a good turn by offer -PRON- a clerkship in a dry good store . " 

      " oh , that be -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , that be -PRON- . " 

      " and -PRON- refuse -PRON- ? " 

      " sure . Could not -PRON- earn ten time as much in -PRON- own bedroom with four 
      hour ' work ? " 

      " that be so . but -PRON- would not get about too much with Morris . " 

      " why not ? " 

      " well , -PRON- guess because -PRON- tell -PRON- not . that be enough for most folk in 
      these part . " 

      " -PRON- may be enough for most folk ; but -PRON- be not enough for -PRON- , 
      Councillor , " say McMurdo boldly . " if -PRON- be a judge of man , -PRON- will 
      know that . " 

      the swarthy giant glare at -PRON- , and -PRON- hairy paw close for an 
      instant round the glass as though -PRON- would hurl -PRON- at the head of -PRON- 
      companion . then -PRON- laugh in -PRON- loud , boisterous , insincere 
      fashion . 

      " -PRON- be a queer card , for sure , " say -PRON- . " well , if -PRON- want reason , 
      -PRON- will give -PRON- . do Morris say nothing to -PRON- against the lodge ? " 

      " no . " 

      " nor against -PRON- ? " 

      " no . " 

      " well , that be because -PRON- dare not trust -PRON- . but in -PRON- heart -PRON- be 
      not a loyal brother . -PRON- know that well . so -PRON- watch -PRON- and -PRON- wait 
      for the time to admonish -PRON- . -PRON- be think that the time be draw 
      near . there be no room for scabby sheep in -PRON- pen . but if -PRON- keep 
      company with a disloyal man , -PRON- may think that -PRON- be disloyal , 
      too . see ? " 

      " there be no chance of -PRON- keep company with -PRON- ; for -PRON- dislike the 
      man , " McMurdo answer . " as to be disloyal , if -PRON- be any man but 
      -PRON- -PRON- would not use the word to -PRON- twice . " 

      " well , that be enough , " say McGinty , drain off -PRON- glass . " -PRON- come 
      down to give -PRON- a word in season , and -PRON- have have -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- would like to know , " say McMurdo , " how -PRON- ever come to learn that -PRON- 
      have speak with Morris at all ? " 

      McGinty laugh . " -PRON- be -PRON- business to know what go on in this 
      township , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- guess -PRON- would best reckon on -PRON- hearing all that 
      pass . well , time be up , and -PRON- will just say-- " 

      but -PRON- leavetaking be cut short in a very unexpected fashion . with 
      a sudden crash the door fly open , and three frowning , intent face 
      glare in at -PRON- from under the peak of police cap . McMurdo spring 
      to -PRON- foot and half draw -PRON- revolver ; but -PRON- arm stop midway as 
      -PRON- become conscious that two Winchester rifle be level at -PRON- 
      head . a man in uniform advance into the room , a six - shooter in -PRON- 
      hand . -PRON- be Captain Marvin , once of Chicago , and now of the Mine 
      Constabulary . -PRON- shake -PRON- head with a half - smile at McMurdo . 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- would be get into trouble , Mr. Crooked McMurdo of 
      Chicago , " say -PRON- . " can not keep out of -PRON- , can -PRON- ? take -PRON- hat and 
      come along with -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- guess -PRON- will pay for this , Captain Marvin , " say McGinty . " who be 
      -PRON- , -PRON- would like to know , to break into a house in this fashion and 
      molest honest , law - abide man ? " 

      " -PRON- be stand out in this deal , Councillor McGinty , " say the 
      police captain . " -PRON- be not out after -PRON- , but after this man 
      McMurdo . -PRON- be for -PRON- to help , not to hinder -PRON- in -PRON- duty , " 

      " -PRON- be a friend of mine , and -PRON- will answer for -PRON- conduct , " say the 
      boss . 

      " by all account , Mr. McGinty , -PRON- may have to answer for -PRON- own 
      conduct some of these day , " the captain answer . " this man McMurdo 
      be a crook before ever -PRON- come here , and -PRON- be a crook still . cover 
      -PRON- , Patrolman , while -PRON- disarm -PRON- . " 

      " there be -PRON- pistol , " say McMurdo coolly . " maybe , Captain Marvin , if 
      -PRON- and -PRON- be alone and face to face -PRON- would not take -PRON- so 
      easily . " 

      " where be -PRON- warrant ? " ask McGinty . " by Gar ! a man may as well 
      live in Russia as in Vermissa while folk like -PRON- be run the 
      police . -PRON- be a capitalist outrage , and -PRON- will hear more of -PRON- , -PRON- 
      reckon . " 

      " -PRON- do what -PRON- think be -PRON- duty the good way -PRON- can , Councillor . 
      -PRON- will look after -PRON- . " 

      " what be -PRON- accuse of ? " ask McMurdo . 

      " of be concern in the beating of old Editor Stanger at the 
      Herald office . -PRON- be not -PRON- fault that -PRON- be not a murder charge . " 

      " well , if that be all -PRON- have against -PRON- , " cry McGinty with a 
      laugh , " -PRON- can save -PRON- a deal of trouble by drop -PRON- right 
      now . this man be with -PRON- in -PRON- saloon play poker up to midnight , 
      and -PRON- can bring a dozen to prove -PRON- . " 

      " that be -PRON- affair , and -PRON- guess -PRON- can settle -PRON- in court 
      to - morrow . meanwhile , come on , McMurdo , and come quietly if -PRON- do not 
      want a gun across -PRON- head . -PRON- stand wide , Mr. McGinty ; for -PRON- warn 
      -PRON- -PRON- will stand no resistance when -PRON- be on duty ! " 

      so determined be the appearance of the captain that both McMurdo and 
      -PRON- boss be force to accept the situation . the latter manage to 
      have a few whisper word with the prisoner before -PRON- part . 

      " what about-- " -PRON- jerk -PRON- thumb upward to signify the coin 
      plant . 

      " all right , " whisper McMurdo , who have devise a safe hiding place 
      under the floor . 

      " -PRON- will bid -PRON- good - bye , " say the Boss , shake hand . " -PRON- will see 
      reilly the lawyer and take the defense upon -PRON- . take -PRON- word for 
      -PRON- that -PRON- will not be able to hold -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- would not bet on that . guard the prisoner , -PRON- two , and shoot -PRON- 
      if -PRON- try any game . -PRON- will search the house before -PRON- leave . " 

      -PRON- do so ; but apparently find no trace of the conceal plant . when 
      -PRON- have descend -PRON- and -PRON- man escort McMurdo to headquarter . 
      darkness have fall , and a keen blizzard be blow so that the 
      street be nearly desert ; but a few loiterer follow the group , 
      and embolden by invisibility shout imprecation at the prisoner . 

      " Lynch the curse Scowrer ! " -PRON- cry . " lynch -PRON- ! " -PRON- laugh and 
      jeer as -PRON- be push into the police station . after a short , 
      formal examination from the inspector in charge -PRON- be put into the 
      common cell . here -PRON- find Baldwin and three other criminal of the 
      night before , all arrest that afternoon and wait -PRON- trial 
      next morning . 

      but even within this inner fortress of the law the long arm of the 
      Freemen be able to extend . late at night there come a jailer with a 
      straw bundle for -PRON- bedding , out of which -PRON- extract two bottle 
      of whisky , some glass , and a pack of card . -PRON- spend a hilarious 
      night , without an anxious thought as to the ordeal of the morning . 

      nor have -PRON- cause , as the result be to show . the magistrate could 
      not possibly , on the evidence , have hold -PRON- for a high court . on 
      the one hand the compositor and pressman be force to admit that 
      the light be uncertain , that -PRON- be -PRON- much perturbed , 
      and that -PRON- be difficult for -PRON- to swear to the identity of the 
      assailant ; although -PRON- believe that the accuse be among -PRON- . 
      Cross examine by the clever attorney who have be engage by 
      McGinty , -PRON- be even more nebulous in -PRON- evidence . 

      the injure man have already depose that -PRON- be so take by surprise 
      by the suddenness of the attack that -PRON- could state nothing beyond 
      the fact that the first man who strike -PRON- wear a moustache . -PRON- add 
      that -PRON- know -PRON- to be Scowrers , since no one else in the community 
      could possibly have any enmity to -PRON- , and -PRON- have long be 
      threaten on account of -PRON- outspoken editorial . on the other hand , 
      -PRON- be clearly show by the united and unfaltere evidence of six 
      citizen , include that high municipal official , Councillor McGinty , 
      that the man have be at a card party at the Union House until an 
      hour very much later than the commission of the outrage . 

      needless to say that -PRON- be discharge with something very near to 
      an apology from the bench for the inconvenience to which -PRON- have 
      be put , together with an imply censure of Captain Marvin and the 
      police for -PRON- officious zeal . 

      the verdict be greet with loud applause by a court in which 
      McMurdo see many familiar face . brother of the lodge smile and 
      wave . but there be other who sit with compressed lip and 
      brood eye as the man file out of the dock . one of -PRON- , a 
      little , dark - bearded , resolute fellow , put the thought of -PRON- 
      and comrade into word as the ex - prisoner pass -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- damn murderer ! " -PRON- say . " -PRON- will fix -PRON- yet ! " 





           CHAPTER V 
           the Darkest Hour 


      if anything have be need to give an impetus to Jack McMurdo 's 
      popularity among -PRON- fellow -PRON- would have be -PRON- arrest and 
      acquittal . that a man on the very night of join the lodge should 
      have do something which bring -PRON- before the magistrate be a new 
      record in the annal of the society . already -PRON- have earn the 
      reputation of a good boon companion , a cheery reveller , and withal a 
      man of high temper , who would not take an insult even from the 
      all - powerful boss -PRON- . but in addition to this -PRON- impress -PRON- 
      comrade with the idea that among -PRON- all there be not one whose 
      brain be so ready to devise a bloodthirsty scheme , or whose hand 
      would be more capable of carry -PRON- out . " -PRON- will be the boy for the 
      clean job , " say the oldster to one another , and wait -PRON- time 
      until -PRON- could set -PRON- to -PRON- work . 

      McGinty have instrument enough already ; but -PRON- recognize that this 
      be a supremely able one . -PRON- feel like a man hold a fierce 
      bloodhound in leash . there be cur to do the small work ; but some 
      day -PRON- would slip this creature upon -PRON- prey . a few member of the 
      lodge , Ted Baldwin among -PRON- , resent the rapid rise of the 
      stranger and hate -PRON- for -PRON- ; but -PRON- keep clear of -PRON- , for -PRON- be 
      as ready to fight as to laugh . 

      but if -PRON- gain favour with -PRON- fellow , there be another quarter , 
      one which have become even more vital to -PRON- , in which -PRON- lose -PRON- . 
      Ettie Shafter 's father would have nothing more to do with -PRON- , nor 
      would -PRON- allow -PRON- to enter the house . ettie -PRON- be too deeply 
      in love to give -PRON- up altogether , and yet -PRON- own good sense warn 
      -PRON- of what would come from a marriage with a man who be regard as 
      a criminal . 

      one morning after a sleepless night -PRON- determine to see -PRON- , 
      possibly for the last time , and make one strong endeavour to draw -PRON- 
      from those evil influence which be suck -PRON- down . -PRON- go to 
      -PRON- house , as -PRON- have often beg -PRON- to do , and make -PRON- way into 
      the room which -PRON- use as -PRON- sitting - room . -PRON- be seat at a table , 
      with -PRON- back turn and a letter in front of -PRON- . a sudden spirit of 
      girlish mischief come over -PRON- -- -PRON- be still only nineteen . -PRON- have 
      not hear -PRON- when -PRON- push open the door . now -PRON- tiptoe forward 
      and lay -PRON- hand lightly upon -PRON- bend shoulder . 

      if -PRON- have expect to startle -PRON- , -PRON- certainly succeed ; but only 
      in turn to be startle -PRON- . with a tiger spring -PRON- turn on -PRON- , 
      and -PRON- right hand be feel for -PRON- throat . at the same instant 
      with the other hand -PRON- crumple up the paper that lie before -PRON- . for 
      an instant -PRON- stand glare . then astonishment and joy take the place 
      of the ferocity which have convulse -PRON- feature -- a ferocity which 
      have send -PRON- shrink back in horror as from something which have 
      never before intrude into -PRON- gentle life . 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- ! " say -PRON- , mop -PRON- brow . " and to think that -PRON- should 
      come to -PRON- , heart of -PRON- heart , and -PRON- should find nothing well to do 
      than to want to strangle -PRON- ! come then , darling , " and -PRON- hold out 
      -PRON- arm , " let -PRON- make -PRON- up to -PRON- . " 

      but -PRON- have not recover from that sudden glimpse of guilty fear 
      which -PRON- have read in the man 's face . all -PRON- woman 's instinct tell 
      -PRON- that -PRON- be not the mere fright of a man who be startled . 
      guilt -- that be -PRON- -- guilt and fear ! 

      " what be come over -PRON- , Jack ? " -PRON- cry . " why be -PRON- so scared of 
      -PRON- ? oh , Jack , if -PRON- conscience be at ease , -PRON- would not have 
      look at -PRON- like that ! " 

      " sure , -PRON- be think of other thing , and when -PRON- come trip so 
      lightly on those fairy foot of yours-- " 

      " no , no , -PRON- be more than that , Jack . " then a sudden suspicion seize 
      -PRON- . " let -PRON- see that letter -PRON- be write . " 

      " ah , Ettie , -PRON- could not do that . " 

      -PRON- suspicion become certainty . " -PRON- be to another woman , " -PRON- 
      cry . " -PRON- know -PRON- ! why else should -PRON- hold -PRON- from -PRON- ? be -PRON- to 
      -PRON- wife that -PRON- be write ? how be -PRON- to know that -PRON- be not a 
      married man -- -PRON- , a stranger , that nobody know ? " 

      " -PRON- be not married , Ettie . see now , -PRON- swear -PRON- ! -PRON- be the only one 
      woman on earth to -PRON- . by the cross of Christ -PRON- swear -PRON- ! " 

      -PRON- be so white with passionate earnestness that -PRON- could not but 
      believe -PRON- . 

      " well , then , " -PRON- cry , " why will -PRON- not show -PRON- the letter ? " 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- , acushla , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be under oath not to show -PRON- , 
      and just as -PRON- would not break -PRON- word to -PRON- so -PRON- would keep -PRON- to 
      those who hold -PRON- promise . -PRON- be the business of the lodge , and even 
      to -PRON- -PRON- be secret . and if -PRON- be scared when a hand fall on -PRON- , can not 
      -PRON- understand -PRON- when -PRON- may have be the hand of a detective ? " 

      -PRON- feel that -PRON- be tell the truth . -PRON- gather -PRON- into -PRON- arm 
      and kiss away -PRON- fear and doubt . 

      " sit here by -PRON- , then . -PRON- be a queer throne for such a queen ; but -PRON- be 
      the good -PRON- poor lover can find . -PRON- will do better for -PRON- some of 
      these day , -PRON- be think . now -PRON- mind be easy once again , be -PRON- 
      not ? " 

      " how can -PRON- ever be at ease , Jack , when -PRON- know that -PRON- be a 
      criminal among criminal , when -PRON- never know the day that -PRON- may hear 
      -PRON- be in court for murder ? ' McMurdo the Scowrer , ' that be what one 
      of -PRON- boarder call -PRON- yesterday . -PRON- go through -PRON- heart like a 
      knife . " 

      " sure , hard word break no bone . " 

      " but -PRON- be true . " 

      " well , dear , -PRON- be not so bad as -PRON- think . -PRON- be but poor man that 
      be try in -PRON- own way to get -PRON- right . " 

      Ettie throw -PRON- arm round -PRON- lover 's neck . " give -PRON- up , Jack ! for 
      -PRON- sake , for God 's sake , give -PRON- up ! -PRON- be to ask -PRON- that -PRON- come 
      here to - day . oh , Jack , see -- -PRON- beg -PRON- of -PRON- on -PRON- bended knee ! 
      kneel here before -PRON- -PRON- implore -PRON- to give -PRON- up ! " 

      -PRON- raise -PRON- and soothe -PRON- with -PRON- head against -PRON- breast . 

      " sure , -PRON- darlin ' , -PRON- do not know what -PRON- be -PRON- be ask . how 
      could -PRON- give -PRON- up when -PRON- would be to break -PRON- oath and to desert -PRON- 
      comrade ? if -PRON- could see how thing stand with -PRON- -PRON- could never 
      ask -PRON- of -PRON- . besides , if -PRON- want to , how could -PRON- do -PRON- ? -PRON- do not 
      suppose that the lodge would let a man go free with all -PRON- secret ? " 

      " -PRON- have think of that , Jack . -PRON- have plan -PRON- all . Father have save 
      some money . -PRON- be weary of this place where the fear of these people 
      darken -PRON- life . -PRON- be ready to go . -PRON- would fly together to 
      Philadelphia or New York , where -PRON- would be safe from -PRON- . " 

      McMurdo laugh . " the lodge have a long arm . do -PRON- think -PRON- could not 
      stretch from here to Philadelphia or New York ? " 

      " well , then , to the West , or to England , or to Germany , where father 
      come from -- anywhere to get away from this Valley of Fear ! " 

      McMurdo think of old Brother Morris . " sure , -PRON- be the second time -PRON- 
      have hear the valley so name , " say -PRON- . " the shadow do indeed 
      seem to lie heavy on some of -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- darken every moment of -PRON- life . do -PRON- suppose that Ted 
      Baldwin have ever forgive -PRON- ? if -PRON- be not that -PRON- fear -PRON- , what 
      do -PRON- suppose -PRON- chance would be ? if -PRON- see the look in those 
      dark , hungry eye of -PRON- when -PRON- fall on -PRON- ! " 

      " by Gar ! -PRON- would teach -PRON- well manner if -PRON- catch -PRON- at -PRON- ! but see 
      here , little girl . -PRON- can not leave here . -PRON- can't -- take that from -PRON- 
      once and for all . but if -PRON- will leave -PRON- to find -PRON- own way , -PRON- will 
      try to prepare a way of get honourably out of -PRON- . " 

      " there be no honour in such a matter . " 

      " well , well , -PRON- be just how -PRON- look at -PRON- . but if -PRON- will give -PRON- six 
      month , -PRON- will work -PRON- so that -PRON- can leave without be ashamed to 
      look other in the face . " 

      the girl laugh with joy . " six month ! " -PRON- cry . " be -PRON- a 
      promise ? " 

      " well , -PRON- may be seven or eight . but within a year at the furth -PRON- 
      will leave the valley behind -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- be the most that Ettie could obtain , and yet -PRON- be something . 
      there be this distant light to illuminate the gloom of the immediate 
      future . -PRON- return to -PRON- father 's house more light - hearted than 
      -PRON- have ever be since Jack McMurdo have come into -PRON- life . 

      -PRON- may be think that as a member , all the doing of the society 
      would be tell to -PRON- ; but -PRON- be soon to discover that the 
      organization be wide and more complex than the simple lodge . even 
      Boss McGinty be ignorant as to many thing ; for there be an 
      official name the County Delegate , live at Hobson 's Patch farther 
      down the line , who have power over several different lodge which -PRON- 
      wield in a sudden and arbitrary way . only once do McMurdo see -PRON- , 
      a sly , little gray - haired rat of a man , with a slinking gait and a 
      sidelong glance which be charge with malice . Evans Pott be -PRON- 
      name , and even the great Boss of Vermissa feel towards -PRON- something 
      of the repulsion and fear which the huge Danton may have feel for the 
      puny but dangerous Robespierre . 

      one day Scanlan , who be McMurdo 's fellow boarder , receive a note 
      from McGinty inclose one from Evans Pott , which inform -PRON- that 
      -PRON- be send over two good man , Lawler and Andrews , who have 
      instruction to act in the neighbourhood ; though -PRON- be good for the 
      cause that no particular as to -PRON- object should be give . Would 
      the Bodymaster see to -PRON- that suitable arrangement be make for -PRON- 
      lodging and comfort until the time for action should arrive ? McGinty 
      add that -PRON- be impossible for anyone to remain secret at the Union 
      House , and that , therefore , -PRON- would be oblige if McMurdo and 
      Scanlan would put the stranger up for a few day in -PRON- boarding 
      house . 

      the same evening the two man arrive , each carry -PRON- gripsack . 
      Lawler be an elderly man , shrewd , silent , and self - contain , clothe 
      in an old black frock coat , which with -PRON- soft felt hat and ragged , 
      grizzle beard give -PRON- a general resemblance to an itinerant 
      preacher . -PRON- companion Andrews be little more than a boy , 
      frank - faced and cheerful , with the breezy manner of one who be out 
      for a holiday and mean to enjoy every minute of -PRON- . both man be 
      total abstainer , and behave in all way as exemplary member of the 
      society , with the one simple exception that -PRON- be assassin who 
      have often prove -PRON- to be most capable instrument for this 
      association of murder . Lawler have already carry out fourteen 
      commission of the kind , and Andrews three . 

      -PRON- be , as McMurdo find , quite ready to converse about -PRON- 
      deed in the past , which -PRON- recount with the half - bashful pride 
      of man who have do good and unselfish service for the community . 
      -PRON- be reticent , however , as to the immediate job in hand . 

      " -PRON- choose -PRON- because neither -PRON- nor the boy here drink , " Lawler 
      explain . " -PRON- can count on -PRON- say no more than -PRON- should . -PRON- 
      must not take -PRON- amiss , but -PRON- be the order of the County Delegate 
      that -PRON- obey . " 

      " sure , -PRON- be all in -PRON- together , " say Scanlan , McMurdo 's mate , as 
      the four sit together at supper . 

      " that be true enough , and -PRON- will talk till the cow come home of the 
      killing of Charlie Williams or of Simon Bird , or any other job in the 
      past . but till the work be do -PRON- say nothing . " 

      " there be half a dozen about here that -PRON- have a word to say to , " 
      say McMurdo , with an oath . " -PRON- suppose -PRON- be not Jack Knox of Ironhill 
      that -PRON- be after . -PRON- would go some way to see -PRON- get -PRON- desert . " 

      " no , -PRON- be not -PRON- yet . " 

      " or Herman Strauss ? " 

      " no , nor -PRON- either . " 

      " well , if -PRON- will not tell -PRON- -PRON- can not make -PRON- ; but -PRON- would be glad to 
      know . " 

      Lawler smile and shake -PRON- head . -PRON- be not to be draw . 

      in spite of the reticence of -PRON- guest , Scanlan and McMurdo be 
      quite determined to be present at what -PRON- call " the fun . " when , 
      therefore , at an early hour one morning McMurdo hear -PRON- creep 
      down the stair -PRON- awaken Scanlan , and the two hurry on -PRON- 
      clothe . when -PRON- be dress -PRON- find that the other have steal 
      out , leave the door open behind -PRON- . -PRON- be not yet dawn , and by 
      the light of the lamp -PRON- could see the two man some distance down 
      the street . -PRON- follow -PRON- warily , tread noiselessly in the 
      deep snow . 

      the boarding house be near the edge of the town , and soon -PRON- be 
      at the crossroad which be beyond -PRON- boundary . here three man be 
      wait , with whom Lawler and Andrews hold a short , eager 
      conversation . then -PRON- all move on together . -PRON- be clearly some 
      notable job which need number . at this point there be several 
      trail which lead to various mine . the stranger take that which lead 
      to the Crow Hill , a huge business which be in strong hand which have 
      be able , thank to -PRON- energetic and fearless New England 
      manager , Josiah H. Dunn , to keep some order and discipline during the 
      long reign of terror . 

      Day be break now , and a line of workman be slowly make -PRON- 
      way , singly and in group , along the blacken path . 

      McMurdo and Scanlan stroll on with the other , keep in sight of 
      the man whom -PRON- follow . a thick mist lie over -PRON- , and from the 
      heart of -PRON- there come the sudden scream of a steam whistle . -PRON- be 
      the ten - minute signal before the cage descend and the day 's labour 
      begin . 

      when -PRON- reach the open space round the mine shaft there be a 
      hundred miner wait , stamp -PRON- foot and blow on -PRON- 
      finger ; for -PRON- be bitterly cold . the stranger stand in a little 
      group under the shadow of the engine house . Scanlan and McMurdo 
      climb a heap of slag from which the whole scene lie before -PRON- . 
      -PRON- see the mine engineer , a great bearded Scotchman name Menzies , 
      come out of the engine house and blow -PRON- whistle for the cage to be 
      lower . 

      at the same instant a tall , loose - frame young man with a 
      clean - shaved , earnest face advance eagerly towards the pit head . as 
      -PRON- come forward -PRON- eye fall upon the group , silent and motionless , 
      under the engine house . the man have draw down -PRON- hat and turn 
      up -PRON- collar to screen -PRON- face . for a moment the presentiment 
      of Death lay -PRON- cold hand upon the manager 's heart . at the next -PRON- 
      have shake -PRON- off and see only -PRON- duty towards intrusive stranger . 

      " who be -PRON- ? " -PRON- ask as -PRON- advance . " what be -PRON- loiter there 
      for ? " 

      there be no answer ; but the lad Andrews step forward and shoot -PRON- 
      in the stomach . the hundred wait miner stand as motionless and 
      helpless as if -PRON- be paralyzed . the manager clap -PRON- two hand 
      to the wound and double -PRON- up . then -PRON- stagger away ; but 
      another of the assassin fire , and -PRON- go down sidewise , kicking 
      and claw among a heap of clinker . menzie , the Scotchman , give a 
      roar of rage at the sight and rush with an iron spanner at the 
      murderer ; but be meet by two ball in the face which drop -PRON- 
      dead at -PRON- very foot . 

      there be a surge forward of some of the miner , and an inarticulate 
      cry of pity and of anger ; but a couple of the stranger empty -PRON- 
      six - shooter over the head of the crowd , and -PRON- break and 
      scatter , some of -PRON- rush wildly back to -PRON- home in 
      Vermissa . 

      when a few of the brave have rally , and there be a return to the 
      mine , the murderous gang have vanish in the mist of morning , 
      without a single witness be able to swear to the identity of these 
      man who in front of a hundred spectator have work this double 
      crime . 

      Scanlan and McMurdo make -PRON- way back ; Scanlan somewhat subdue , 
      for -PRON- be the first murder job that -PRON- have see with -PRON- own eye , 
      and -PRON- appear less funny than -PRON- have be lead to believe . the 
      horrible scream of the dead manager 's wife pursue -PRON- as -PRON- 
      hurry to the town . McMurdo be absorb and silent ; but -PRON- show 
      no sympathy for the weakening of -PRON- companion . 

      " sure , -PRON- be like a war , " -PRON- repeat . " what be -PRON- but a war between 
      -PRON- and -PRON- , and -PRON- hit back where -PRON- best can . " 

      there be high revel in the lodge room at the Union House that night , 
      not only over the killing of the manager and engineer of the Crow 
      Hill mine , which would bring this organization into line with the 
      other blackmail and terror - stricken company of the district , but 
      also over a distant triumph which have be work by the hand of 
      the lodge -PRON- . 

      -PRON- would appear that when the County Delegate have send over five good 
      man to strike a blow in Vermissa , -PRON- have demand that in return 
      three Vermissa man should be secretly select and send across to 
      kill William Hales of Stake Royal , one of the best know and most 
      popular mine owner in the Gilmerton district , a man who be believe 
      not to have an enemy in the world ; for -PRON- be in all way a model 
      employer . -PRON- have insist , however , upon efficiency in the work , and 
      have , therefore , pay off certain drunken and idle employee who be 
      member of the all - powerful society . coffin notice hang outside -PRON- 
      door have not weaken -PRON- resolution , and so in a free , civilized 
      country -PRON- find -PRON- condemn to death . 

      the execution have now be duly carry out . Ted Baldwin , who 
      sprawl now in the seat of honour beside the Bodymaster , have be 
      chief of the party . -PRON- flushed face and glaze , blood - shot eye tell 
      of sleeplessness and drink . -PRON- and -PRON- two comrade have spend the 
      night before among the mountain . -PRON- be unkempt and 
      weather - stain . but no hero , return from a forlorn hope , could 
      have have a warm welcome from -PRON- comrade . 

      the story be tell and retold amid cry of delight and shout of 
      laughter . -PRON- have wait for -PRON- man as -PRON- drive home at 
      nightfall , take -PRON- station at the top of a steep hill , where -PRON- 
      horse must be at a walk . -PRON- be so fur to keep out the cold that 
      -PRON- could not lay -PRON- hand on -PRON- pistol . -PRON- have pull -PRON- out and 
      shoot -PRON- again and again . -PRON- have scream for mercy . the scream be 
      repeat for the amusement of the lodge . 

      " let -PRON- hear again how -PRON- squeal , " -PRON- cry . 

      none of -PRON- know the man ; but there be eternal drama in a killing , 
      and -PRON- have show the Scowrers of Gilmerton that the Vermissa man 
      be to be rely upon . 

      there have be one contretemp ; for a man and -PRON- wife have drive up 
      while -PRON- be still empty -PRON- revolver into the silent body . 
      -PRON- have be suggest that -PRON- should shoot -PRON- both ; but -PRON- be 
      harmless folk who be not connect with the mine , so -PRON- be 
      sternly bidden to drive on and keep silent , lest a bad thing befall 
      -PRON- . and so the blood - mottle figure have be leave as a warning to 
      all such hard - hearted employer , and the three noble avenger have 
      hurry off into the mountain where unbroken nature come down to 
      the very edge of the furnace and the slag heap . here -PRON- be , 
      safe and sound , -PRON- work well do , and the plaudit of -PRON- 
      companion in -PRON- ear . 

      -PRON- have be a great day for the Scowrers . the shadow have fall even 
      dark over the valley . but as the wise general choose the moment of 
      victory in which to redouble -PRON- effort , so that -PRON- foe may have 
      no time to steady -PRON- after disaster , so Boss McGinty , look 
      out upon the scene of -PRON- operation with -PRON- brooding and malicious 
      eye , have devise a new attack upon those who oppose -PRON- . that very 
      night , as the half - drunken company break up , -PRON- touch McMurdo on 
      the arm and lead -PRON- aside into that inner room where -PRON- have -PRON- 
      first interview . 

      " see here , -PRON- lad , " say -PRON- , " -PRON- have get a job that be worthy of -PRON- at 
      last . -PRON- will have the doing of -PRON- in -PRON- own hand . " 

      " Proud -PRON- be to hear -PRON- , " McMurdo answer . 

      " -PRON- can take two man with -PRON- -- Manders and Reilly . -PRON- have be 
      warn for service . -PRON- will never be right in this district until 
      Chester Wilcox have be settle , and -PRON- will have the thank of every 
      lodge in the coal field if -PRON- can down -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- will do -PRON- good , anyhow . who be -PRON- , and where shall -PRON- find -PRON- ? " 

      McGinty take -PRON- eternal half - chew , half - smoke cigar from the 
      corner of -PRON- mouth , and proceed to draw a rough diagram on a page 
      tear from -PRON- notebook . 

      " -PRON- be the chief foreman of the Iron Dike Company . -PRON- be a hard 
      citizen , an old colour sergeant of the war , all scar and grizzle . 
      -PRON- have have two try at -PRON- ; but have no luck , and Jim Carnaway lose 
      -PRON- life over -PRON- . now -PRON- be for -PRON- to take -PRON- over . that be the 
      house -- all alone at the Iron Dike crossroad , same as -PRON- see here on 
      the map -- without another within earshot . -PRON- be no good by day . -PRON- be 
      armed and shoot quick and straight , with no question ask . but at 
      night -- well , there -PRON- be with -PRON- wife , three child , and a hire 
      help . -PRON- can not pick or choose . -PRON- be all or none . if -PRON- could get a 
      bag of blast powder at the front door with a slow match to it-- " 

      " what be the man do ? " 

      " do not -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- shoot Jim Carnaway ? " 

      " why do -PRON- shoot -PRON- ? " 

      " what in thunder have that to do with -PRON- ? Carnaway be about -PRON- 
      house at night , and -PRON- shoot -PRON- . that be enough for -PRON- and -PRON- . -PRON- have 
      get to settle the thing right . " 

      " there be these two woman and the child . do -PRON- go up too ? " 

      " -PRON- have to -- else how can -PRON- get -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- seem hard on -PRON- ; for -PRON- have do nothing . " 

      " what sort of fool 's talk be this ? do -PRON- back out ? " 

      " Easy , Councillor , easy ! what have -PRON- ever say or do that -PRON- 
      should think -PRON- would be after stand back from an order of the 
      Bodymaster of -PRON- own lodge ? if -PRON- be right or if -PRON- be wrong , -PRON- be for 
      -PRON- to decide . " 

      " -PRON- will do -PRON- , then ? " 

      " of course -PRON- will do -PRON- . " 

      " when ? " 

      " well , -PRON- have best give -PRON- a night or two that -PRON- may see the house 
      and make -PRON- plan . then-- " 

      " very good , " say McGinty , shake -PRON- by the hand . " -PRON- leave -PRON- with 
      -PRON- . -PRON- will be a great day when -PRON- bring -PRON- the news . -PRON- be just the 
      last stroke that will bring -PRON- all to -PRON- knee . " 

      McMurdo think long and deeply over the commission which have be so 
      suddenly place in -PRON- hand . the isolated house in which Chester 
      Wilcox live be about five mile off in an adjacent valley . that 
      very night -PRON- start off all alone to prepare for the attempt . -PRON- 
      be daylight before -PRON- return from -PRON- reconnaissance . next day -PRON- 
      interview -PRON- two subordinate , Manders and Reilly , reckless 
      youngster who be as elated as if -PRON- be a deer - hunt . 

      two night later -PRON- meet outside the town , all three armed , and one 
      of -PRON- carry a sack stuff with the powder which be use in the 
      quarry . -PRON- be two in the morning before -PRON- come to the lonely 
      house . the night be a windy one , with broken cloud drift swiftly 
      across the face of a three - quarter moon . -PRON- have be warn to be 
      on -PRON- guard against bloodhound ; so -PRON- move forward cautiously , 
      with -PRON- pistol cock in -PRON- hand . but there be no sound save 
      the howling of the wind , and no movement but the sway branch 
      above -PRON- . 

      McMurdo listen at the door of the lonely house ; but all be still 
      within . then -PRON- lean the powder bag against -PRON- , rip a hole in -PRON- 
      with -PRON- knife , and attach the fuse . when -PRON- be well alight -PRON- and 
      -PRON- two companion take to -PRON- heel , and be some distance off , 
      safe and snug in a shelter ditch , before the shattering roar of 
      the explosion , with the low , deep rumble of the collapse building , 
      tell -PRON- that -PRON- work be do . no clean job have ever be 
      carry out in the bloodstained annal of the society . 

      but alas that work so well organized and boldly carry out should 
      all have go for nothing ! warn by the fate of the various victim , 
      and know that -PRON- be mark down for destruction , Chester Wilcox 
      have move -PRON- and -PRON- family only the day before to some safe 
      and less known quarter , where a guard of police should watch over 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be an empty house which have be tear down by the 
      gunpowder , and the grim old colour sergeant of the war be still 
      teach discipline to the miner of Iron Dike . 

      " leave -PRON- to -PRON- , " say McMurdo . " -PRON- be -PRON- man , and -PRON- will get -PRON- sure 
      if -PRON- have to wait a year for -PRON- . " 

      a vote of thank and confidence be pass in full lodge , and so for 
      the time the matter end . when a few week later -PRON- be report in 
      the paper that Wilcox have be shoot at from an ambuscade , -PRON- be an 
      open secret that McMurdo be still at work upon -PRON- unfinished job . 

      such be the method of the Society of Freemen , and such be the 
      deed of the Scowrers by which -PRON- spread -PRON- rule of fear over 
      the great and rich district which be for so long a period haunt by 
      -PRON- terrible presence . why should these page be stain by further 
      crime ? have -PRON- not say enough to show the man and -PRON- method ? 

      these deed be write in history , and there be record wherein one 
      may read the detail of -PRON- . there one may learn of the shooting of 
      Policemen Hunt and Evans because -PRON- have venture to arrest two 
      member of the society -- a double outrage plan at the Vermissa 
      lodge and carry out in cold blood upon two helpless and disarm 
      man . there also one may read of the shooting of Mrs. Larbey when -PRON- 
      be nurse -PRON- husband , who have be beat almost to death by 
      order of Boss McGinty . the killing of the eld Jenkins , shortly 
      follow by that of -PRON- brother , the mutilation of James Murdoch , the 
      blow up of the Staphouse family , and the murder of the Stendals 
      all follow hard upon one another in the same terrible winter . 

      darkly the shadow lie upon the Valley of Fear . the spring have come 
      with run brook and blossom tree . there be hope for all 
      nature bind so long in an iron grip ; but nowhere be there any hope 
      for the man and woman who live under the yoke of the terror . never 
      have the cloud above -PRON- be so dark and hopeless as in the early 
      summer of the year 1875 . 





           CHAPTER VI 
           Danger 


      -PRON- be the height of the reign of terror . McMurdo , who have already 
      be appoint Inner Deacon , with every prospect of some day 
      succeed McGinty as Bodymaster , be now so necessary to the 
      council of -PRON- comrade that nothing be do without -PRON- help and 
      advice . the more popular -PRON- become , however , with the Freemen , the 
      blacker be the scowl which greet -PRON- as -PRON- pass along the 
      street of Vermissa . in spite of -PRON- terror the citizen be 
      take heart to band -PRON- together against -PRON- oppressor . 
      Rumours have reach the lodge of secret gathering in the Herald 
      office and of distribution of firearm among the law - abide people . 
      but McGinty and -PRON- man be undisturbed by such report . -PRON- be 
      numerous , resolute , and well armed . -PRON- opponent be scatter 
      and powerless . -PRON- would all end , as -PRON- have do in the past , in 
      aimless talk and possibly in impotent arrest . so say McGinty , 
      McMurdo , and all the bold spirit . 

      -PRON- be a Saturday evening in May Saturday be always the lodge 
      night , and McMurdo be leave -PRON- house to attend -PRON- when Morris , 
      the weak brother of the order , come to see -PRON- . -PRON- brow be 
      crease with care , and -PRON- kindly face be draw and haggard . 

      " Can -PRON- speak with -PRON- freely , Mr. McMurdo ? " 

      " sure . " 

      " -PRON- can not forget that -PRON- speak -PRON- heart to -PRON- once , and that -PRON- keep 
      -PRON- to -PRON- , even though the Boss -PRON- come to ask -PRON- about 
      -PRON- . " 

      " what else could -PRON- do if -PRON- trust -PRON- ? -PRON- be not that -PRON- agree with 
      what -PRON- say . " 

      " -PRON- know that well . but -PRON- be the one that -PRON- can speak to and be 
      safe . -PRON- have a secret here , " -PRON- put -PRON- hand to -PRON- breast , " and -PRON- be 
      just burn the life out of -PRON- . -PRON- wish -PRON- have come to any one of -PRON- 
      but -PRON- . if -PRON- tell -PRON- , -PRON- will mean murder , for sure . if -PRON- do not , -PRON- 
      may bring the end of -PRON- all . God help -PRON- , but -PRON- be near out of -PRON- 
      wit over -PRON- ! " 

      McMurdo look at the man earnestly . -PRON- be tremble in every limb . 
      -PRON- pour some whisky into a glass and hand -PRON- to -PRON- . " that be the 
      physic for the like of -PRON- , " say -PRON- . " now let -PRON- hear of -PRON- . " 

      Morris drink , and -PRON- white face take a tinge of colour . " -PRON- can tell 
      -PRON- to -PRON- all in one sentence , " say -PRON- . " there be a detective on -PRON- 
      trail . " 

      McMurdo stare at -PRON- in astonishment . " why , man , -PRON- be crazy , " -PRON- 
      say . " be not the place full of police and detective and what harm 
      do -PRON- ever do -PRON- ? " 

      " no , no , -PRON- be no man of the district . as -PRON- say , -PRON- know -PRON- , and 
      -PRON- be little that -PRON- can do . but -PRON- have hear of Pinkerton 's ? " 

      " -PRON- have read of some folk of that name . " 

      " well , -PRON- can take -PRON- from -PRON- -PRON- have no show when -PRON- be on -PRON- 
      trail . -PRON- be not a take - -PRON- - or - miss - -PRON- government concern . -PRON- be a dead 
      earnest business proposition that be out for result and keep out 
      till by hook or crook -PRON- get -PRON- . if a Pinkerton man be deep in 
      this business , -PRON- be all destroy . " 

      " -PRON- must kill -PRON- . " 

      " ah , -PRON- be the first thought that come to -PRON- ! so -PRON- will be up at the 
      lodge . do not -PRON- say to -PRON- that -PRON- would end in murder ? " 

      " sure , what be murder ? be not -PRON- common enough in these part ? " 

      " -PRON- be , indeed ; but -PRON- be not for -PRON- to point out the man that be to 
      be murder . -PRON- would never rest easy again . and yet -PRON- be -PRON- own neck 
      that may be at stake . in God 's name what shall -PRON- do ? " -PRON- rock to 
      and fro in -PRON- agony of indecision . 

      but -PRON- word have move McMurdo deeply . -PRON- be easy to see that -PRON- 
      share the other 's opinion as to the danger , and the need for meet 
      -PRON- . -PRON- grip Morris 's shoulder and shake -PRON- in -PRON- earnestness . 

      " see here , man , " -PRON- cry , and -PRON- almost screech the word in -PRON- 
      excitement , " -PRON- will not gain anything by sit keen like an old 
      wife at a wake . let -PRON- have the fact . who be the fellow ? where be -PRON- ? 
      how do -PRON- hear of -PRON- ? why do -PRON- come to -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- come to -PRON- ; for -PRON- be the one man that would advise -PRON- . -PRON- tell 
      -PRON- that -PRON- have a store in the East before -PRON- come here . -PRON- leave good 
      friend behind -PRON- , and one of -PRON- be in the telegraph service . 
      here be a letter that -PRON- have from -PRON- yesterday . -PRON- be this part from 
      the top of the page . -PRON- can read -PRON- -PRON- . " 

      this be what McMurdo read : 

      how be the Scowrers get on in -PRON- part ? -PRON- read plenty of -PRON- 
      in the paper . between -PRON- and -PRON- -PRON- expect to hear news from -PRON- 
      before long . five big corporation and the two railroad have take 
      the thing up in dead earnest . -PRON- mean -PRON- , and -PRON- can bet -PRON- will 
      get there ! -PRON- be right deep down into -PRON- . Pinkerton have take hold 
      under -PRON- order , and -PRON- good man , Birdy Edwards , be operate . 
      the thing have get to be stop right now . 

      " now read the postscript . " 

      of course , what -PRON- give -PRON- be what -PRON- learn in business ; so -PRON- go 
      no further . -PRON- be a queer cipher that -PRON- handle by the yard every day 
      and can get no meaning from . 

      McMurdo sit in silence for some time , with the letter in -PRON- listless 
      hand . the mist have lift for a moment , and there be the abyss 
      before -PRON- . 

      " do anyone else know of this ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- have tell no one else . " 

      " but this man -- -PRON- friend -- have -PRON- any other person that -PRON- would be 
      likely to write to ? " 

      " well , -PRON- dare say -PRON- know one or two more . " 

      " of the lodge ? " 

      " -PRON- be likely enough . " 

      " -PRON- be ask because -PRON- be likely that -PRON- may have give some 
      description of this fellow Birdy Edwards -- then -PRON- could get on -PRON- 
      trail . " 

      " well , -PRON- be possible . but -PRON- should not think -PRON- know -PRON- . -PRON- be just 
      tell -PRON- the news that come to -PRON- by way of business . how would -PRON- 
      know this Pinkerton man ? " 

      McMurdo give a violent start . 

      " by Gar ! " -PRON- cry , " -PRON- have get -PRON- . what a fool -PRON- be not to know -PRON- . 
      Lord ! but -PRON- be in luck ! -PRON- will fix -PRON- before -PRON- can do any harm . 
      see here , Morris , will -PRON- leave this thing in -PRON- hand ? " 

      " sure , if -PRON- will only take -PRON- off mine . " 

      " -PRON- will do that . -PRON- can stand right back and let -PRON- run -PRON- . even -PRON- 
      name nee not be mention . -PRON- will take -PRON- all on -PRON- , as if -PRON- be 
      to -PRON- that this letter have come . Will that content -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be just what -PRON- would ask . " 

      " then leave -PRON- at that and keep -PRON- head shut . now -PRON- will get down to 
      the lodge , and -PRON- will soon make old man Pinkerton sorry for -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- would not kill this man ? " 

      " the less -PRON- know , Friend Morris , the easy -PRON- conscience will 
      be , and the well -PRON- will sleep . ask no question , and let these 
      thing settle -PRON- . -PRON- have hold of -PRON- now . " 

      Morris shake -PRON- head sadly as -PRON- leave . " -PRON- feel that -PRON- blood be on 
      -PRON- hand , " -PRON- groan . 

      " self - protection be no murder , anyhow , " say McMurdo , smile grimly . 
      " -PRON- be -PRON- or -PRON- . -PRON- guess this man would destroy -PRON- all if -PRON- leave -PRON- 
      long in the valley . why , Brother Morris , -PRON- will have to elect -PRON- 
      Bodymaster yet ; for -PRON- have surely save the lodge . " 

      and yet -PRON- be clear from -PRON- action that -PRON- think more seriously 
      of this new intrusion than -PRON- word would show . -PRON- may have be -PRON- 
      guilty conscience , -PRON- may have be the reputation of the Pinkerton 
      organization , -PRON- may have be the knowledge that great , rich 
      corporation have set -PRON- the task of clear out the 
      Scowrers ; but , whatever -PRON- reason , -PRON- action be those of a man 
      who be prepare for the bad . every paper which would incriminate 
      -PRON- be destroy before -PRON- leave the house . after that -PRON- give a long 
      sigh of satisfaction ; for -PRON- seem to -PRON- that -PRON- be safe . and yet 
      the danger must still have press somewhat upon -PRON- ; for on -PRON- way 
      to the lodge -PRON- stop at old man Shafter 's . the house be forbid 
      -PRON- ; but when -PRON- tap at the window ettie come out to -PRON- . the 
      dance irish deviltry have go from -PRON- lover 's eye . -PRON- read -PRON- 
      danger in -PRON- earnest face . 

      " something have happen ! " -PRON- cry . " oh , Jack , -PRON- be in danger ! " 

      " sure , -PRON- be not very bad , -PRON- sweetheart . and yet -PRON- may be wise that 
      -PRON- make a move before -PRON- be bad . " 

      " make a move ? " 

      " -PRON- promise -PRON- once that -PRON- would go some day . -PRON- think the time be 
      come . -PRON- have news to - night , bad news , and -PRON- see trouble come . " 

      " the police ? " 

      " well , a Pinkerton . but , sure , -PRON- would not know what that be , 
      acushla , nor what -PRON- may mean to the like of -PRON- . -PRON- be too deep in 
      this thing , and -PRON- may have to get out of -PRON- quick . -PRON- say -PRON- would 
      come with -PRON- if -PRON- go . " 

      " oh , Jack , -PRON- would be the saving of -PRON- ! " 

      " -PRON- be an honest man in some thing , Ettie . -PRON- would not hurt a hair of 
      -PRON- bonny head for all that the world can give , nor ever pull -PRON- 
      down one inch from the golden throne above the cloud where -PRON- always 
      see -PRON- . Would -PRON- trust -PRON- ? " 

      -PRON- put -PRON- hand in -PRON- without a word . " well , then , listen to what -PRON- 
      say , and do as -PRON- order -PRON- , for indeed -PRON- be the only way for -PRON- . 
      thing be go to happen in this valley . -PRON- feel -PRON- in -PRON- bone . 
      there may be many of -PRON- that will have to look out for -PRON- . -PRON- be 
      one , anyhow . if -PRON- go , by day or night , -PRON- be -PRON- that must come with 
      -PRON- ! " 

      " -PRON- would come after -PRON- , Jack . " 

      " no , no , -PRON- shall come with -PRON- . if this valley be close to -PRON- and -PRON- 
      can never come back , how can -PRON- leave -PRON- behind , and -PRON- perhaps in 
      hide from the police with never a chance of a message ? -PRON- be with -PRON- 
      -PRON- must come . -PRON- know a good woman in the place -PRON- come from , and -PRON- be 
      there -PRON- would leave -PRON- till -PRON- can get married . Will -PRON- come ? " 

      " yes , Jack , -PRON- will come . " 

      " God bless -PRON- for -PRON- trust in -PRON- ! -PRON- be a fiend out of hell that -PRON- 
      should be if -PRON- abuse -PRON- . now , mark -PRON- , Ettie , -PRON- will be just a 
      word to -PRON- , and when -PRON- reach -PRON- , -PRON- will drop everything and 
      come right down to the waiting room at the depot and stay there till 
      -PRON- come for -PRON- . " 

      " day or night , -PRON- will come at the word , Jack . " 

      somewhat ease in mind , now that -PRON- own preparation for escape have 
      be begin , McMurdo go on to the lodge . -PRON- have already assemble , 
      and only by complicated sign and counter - sign could -PRON- pass through 
      the outer guard and inner guard who close - tile -PRON- . a buzz of 
      pleasure and welcome greet -PRON- as -PRON- enter . the long room be 
      crowd , and through the haze of tobacco smoke -PRON- see the tangle 
      black mane of the Bodymaster , the cruel , unfriendly feature of 
      Baldwin , the vulture face of Harraway , the secretary , and a dozen 
      more who be among the leader of the lodge . -PRON- rejoice that -PRON- 
      should all be there to take counsel over -PRON- news . 

      " indeed , -PRON- be glad -PRON- be to see -PRON- , Brother ! " cry the chairman . 
      " there be business here that want a Solomon in judgment to set -PRON- 
      right . " 

      " -PRON- be Lander and Egan , " explain -PRON- neighbour as -PRON- take -PRON- seat . 
      " -PRON- both claim the head money give by the lodge for the shooting 
      of old man Crabbe over at Stylestown , and who be to say which fire 
      the bullet ? " 

      McMurdo rise in -PRON- place and raise -PRON- hand . the expression of -PRON- 
      face freeze the attention of the audience . there be a dead hush of 
      expectation . 

      " Eminent Bodymaster , " -PRON- say , in a solemn voice , " -PRON- claim urgency ! " 

      " Brother McMurdo claim urgency , " say McGinty . " -PRON- be a claim that by 
      the rule of this lodge take precedence . now Brother , -PRON- attend 
      -PRON- . " 

      McMurdo take the letter from -PRON- pocket . 

      " Eminent Bodymaster and Brethren , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- be the bearer of ill 
      news this day ; but -PRON- be well that -PRON- should be know and 
      discuss , than that a blow should fall upon -PRON- without warn which 
      would destroy -PRON- all . -PRON- have information that the most powerful and 
      rich organization in this state have bind -PRON- together 
      for -PRON- destruction , and that at this very moment there be a 
      Pinkerton detective , one Birdy Edwards , at work in the valley 
      collect the evidence which may put a rope round the neck of many 
      of -PRON- , and send every man in this room into a felon 's cell . that be 
      the situation for the discussion of which -PRON- have make a claim of 
      urgency . " 

      there be a dead silence in the room . -PRON- be break by the chairman . 

      " what be -PRON- evidence for this , Brother McMurdo ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- be in this letter which have come into -PRON- hand , " say McMurdo . -PRON- 
      read the passage aloud . " -PRON- be a matter of honour with -PRON- that -PRON- can 
      give no further particular about the letter , nor put -PRON- into -PRON- 
      hand ; but -PRON- assure -PRON- that there be nothing else in -PRON- which can 
      affect the interest of the lodge . -PRON- put the case before -PRON- as -PRON- 
      have reach -PRON- . " 

      " let -PRON- say , Mr. Chairman , " say one of the old brother , " that -PRON- 
      have hear of Birdy Edwards , and that -PRON- have the name of be the 
      good man in the Pinkerton service . " 

      " do anyone know -PRON- by sight ? " ask McGinty . 

      " yes , " say McMurdo , " -PRON- do . " 

      there be a murmur of astonishment through the hall . 

      " -PRON- believe -PRON- hold -PRON- in the hollow of -PRON- hand , " -PRON- continue with 
      an exulting smile upon -PRON- face . " if -PRON- act quickly and wisely , -PRON- 
      can cut this thing short . if -PRON- have -PRON- confidence and -PRON- help , -PRON- 
      be little that -PRON- have to fear . " 

      " what have -PRON- to fear , anyhow ? what can -PRON- know of -PRON- affair ? " 

      " -PRON- may say so if all be as stanch as -PRON- , Councillor . but this 
      man have all the million of the capitalist at -PRON- back . do -PRON- think 
      there be no weak brother among all -PRON- lodge that could not be 
      buy ? -PRON- will get at -PRON- secret -- maybe have get -PRON- already . 
      there be only one sure cure . " 

      " that -PRON- never leave the valley , " say Baldwin . 

      McMurdo nod . " good for -PRON- , Brother Baldwin , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- and -PRON- 
      have have -PRON- difference , but -PRON- have say the true word to - night . " 

      " where be -PRON- , then ? where shall -PRON- know -PRON- ? " 

      " Eminent Bodymaster , " say McMurdo , earnestly , " -PRON- would put -PRON- to -PRON- 
      that this be too vital a thing for -PRON- to discuss in open lodge . God 
      forbid that -PRON- should throw a doubt on anyone here ; but if so much as 
      a word of gossip get to the ear of this man , there would be an end 
      of any chance of -PRON- get -PRON- . -PRON- would ask the lodge to choose a 
      trusty committee , Mr. Chairman -- -PRON- , if -PRON- may suggest -PRON- , and 
      Brother Baldwin here , and five more . then -PRON- can talk freely of what -PRON- 
      know and of what -PRON- advise should be do . " 

      the proposition be at once adopt , and the committee choose . 
      besides the chairman and Baldwin there be the vulture - face 
      secretary , Harraway , Tiger Cormac , the brutal young assassin , Carter , 
      the treasurer , and the brother Willaby , fearless and desperate man 
      who would stick at nothing . 

      the usual revelry of the lodge be short and subdue : for there be a 
      cloud upon the man 's spirit , and many there for the first time begin 
      to see the cloud of avenge Law drift up in that serene sky under 
      which -PRON- have dwell so long . the horror -PRON- have deal out to 
      other have be so much a part of -PRON- settle life that the 
      thought of retribution have become a remote one , and so seem the 
      more startling now that -PRON- come so closely upon -PRON- . -PRON- break up 
      early and leave -PRON- leader to -PRON- council . 

      " now , McMurdo ! " say McGinty when -PRON- be alone . the seven man sit 
      freeze in -PRON- seat . 

      " -PRON- say just now that -PRON- know Birdy Edwards , " McMurdo explain . " -PRON- 
      nee not tell -PRON- that -PRON- be not here under that name . -PRON- be a brave 
      man , but not a crazy one . -PRON- pass under the name of Steve Wilson , 
      and -PRON- be lodge at Hobson 's Patch . " 

      " how do -PRON- know this ? " 

      " because -PRON- fall into talk with -PRON- . -PRON- think little of -PRON- at the 
      time , nor would have give -PRON- a second thought but for this letter ; 
      but now -PRON- be sure -PRON- be the man . -PRON- meet -PRON- on the car when -PRON- go down 
      the line on Wednesday -- a hard case if ever there be one . -PRON- say -PRON- 
      be a reporter . -PRON- believe -PRON- for the moment . want to know all -PRON- 
      could about the Scowrers and what -PRON- call ' the outrage ' for a New 
      York paper . ask -PRON- every kind of question so as to get something . 
      -PRON- bet -PRON- be give nothing away . ' -PRON- would pay for -PRON- and pay well , ' 
      say -PRON- , ' if -PRON- could get some stuff that would suit -PRON- editor . ' -PRON- 
      say what -PRON- think would please -PRON- best , and -PRON- hand -PRON- a 
      twenty - dollar bill for -PRON- information . ' there be ten time that for 
      -PRON- , ' say -PRON- , ' if -PRON- can find -PRON- all that -PRON- want . ' " 

      " what do -PRON- tell -PRON- , then ? " 

      " any stuff -PRON- could make up . " 

      " how do -PRON- know -PRON- be not a newspaper man ? " 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- . -PRON- get out at Hobson 's Patch , and so do I. -PRON- chance 
      into the telegraph bureau , and -PRON- be leave -PRON- . 

      " ' see here , ' say the operator after -PRON- would go out , ' -PRON- guess -PRON- 
      should charge double rate for this . '--'i guess -PRON- should , ' say I. 
      -PRON- have fill the form with stuff that may have be Chinese , for 
      all -PRON- could make of -PRON- . ' -PRON- fire a sheet of this off every day , ' 
      say the clerk . ' yes , ' say -PRON- ; ' -PRON- be special news for -PRON- paper , and 
      -PRON- be scare that the other should tap -PRON- . ' that be what the 
      operator think and what -PRON- think at the time ; but -PRON- think 
      differently now . " 

      " by Gar ! -PRON- believe -PRON- be right , " say McGinty . " but what do -PRON- 
      allow that -PRON- should do about -PRON- ? " 

      " why not go right down now and fix -PRON- ? " someone suggest . 

      " ay , the sooner the well . " 

      " -PRON- would start this next minute if -PRON- know where -PRON- could find -PRON- , " say 
      McMurdo . " -PRON- be in Hobson 's Patch ; but -PRON- do not know the house . -PRON- have 
      get a plan , though , if -PRON- will only take -PRON- advice . " 

      " well , what be -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- will go to the Patch to - morrow morning . -PRON- will find -PRON- through the 
      operator . -PRON- can locate -PRON- , -PRON- guess . well , then -PRON- will tell -PRON- that 
      -PRON- be a Freeman -PRON- . -PRON- will offer -PRON- all the secret of the lodge for 
      a price . -PRON- bet -PRON- will tumble to -PRON- . -PRON- will tell -PRON- the paper be at 
      -PRON- house , and that -PRON- be as much as -PRON- life would be worth to let -PRON- 
      come while folk be about . -PRON- will see that that be horse sense . let 
      -PRON- come at ten o'clock at night , and -PRON- shall see everything . that 
      will fetch -PRON- sure . " 

      " well ? " 

      " -PRON- can plan the rest for yourself . Widow MacNamara 's be a lonely 
      house . -PRON- be as true as steel and as deaf as a post . there be only 
      Scanlan and -PRON- in the house . if -PRON- get -PRON- promise -- and -PRON- will let -PRON- 
      know if -PRON- do -- i'd have the whole seven of -PRON- come to -PRON- by nine 
      o'clock . -PRON- will get -PRON- in . if ever -PRON- get out alive -- well , -PRON- can 
      talk of Birdy Edwards 's luck for the rest of -PRON- day ! " 

      " there be go to be a vacancy at Pinkerton 's or -PRON- be mistaken . leave 
      -PRON- at that , McMurdo . at nine to - morrow -PRON- will be with -PRON- . -PRON- once 
      get the door shut behind -PRON- , and -PRON- can leave the rest with -PRON- . " 





           CHAPTER VII 
           the Trapping of Birdy Edwards 


      as McMurdo have say , the house in which -PRON- live be a lonely one and 
      very well suited for such a crime as -PRON- have plan . -PRON- be on the 
      extreme fringe of the town and stand well back from the road . in any 
      other case the conspirator would have simply call out -PRON- man , 
      as -PRON- have many a time before , and empty -PRON- pistol into -PRON- 
      body ; but in this instance -PRON- be very necessary to find out how much 
      -PRON- know , how -PRON- know -PRON- , and what have be pass on to -PRON- 
      employer . 

      -PRON- be possible that -PRON- be already too late and that the work have 
      be do . if that be indeed so , -PRON- could at least have -PRON- 
      revenge upon the man who have do -PRON- . but -PRON- be hopeful that 
      nothing of great importance have yet come to the detective 's 
      knowledge , as otherwise , -PRON- argue , -PRON- would not have trouble to 
      write down and forward such trivial information as McMurdo claim to 
      have give -PRON- . however , all this -PRON- would learn from -PRON- own lip . 
      once in -PRON- power , -PRON- would find a way to make -PRON- speak . -PRON- be 
      not the first time that -PRON- have handle an unwilling witness . 

      McMurdo go to Hobson 's Patch as agree . the police seem to take 
      particular interest in -PRON- that morning , and Captain Marvin -- -PRON- who 
      have claim the old acquaintance with -PRON- at Chicago -- actually 
      address -PRON- as -PRON- wait at the station . McMurdo turn away and 
      refuse to speak with -PRON- . -PRON- be back from -PRON- mission in the 
      afternoon , and see McGinty at the Union House . 

      " -PRON- be come , " -PRON- say . 

      " good ! " say McGinty . the giant be in -PRON- shirt sleeve , with chain 
      and seal gleam athwart -PRON- ample waistcoat and a diamond 
      twinkle through the fringe of -PRON- bristling beard . drink and 
      politic have make the Boss a very rich as well as powerful man . the 
      more terrible , therefore , seem that glimpse of the prison or the 
      gallow which have rise before -PRON- the night before . 

      " do -PRON- reckon -PRON- know much ? " -PRON- ask anxiously . 

      McMurdo shake -PRON- head gloomily . " -PRON- be be here some time -- six week 
      at the least . -PRON- guess -PRON- do not come into these part to look at the 
      prospect . if -PRON- have be work among -PRON- all that time with the 
      railroad money at -PRON- back , -PRON- should expect that -PRON- have get result , 
      and that -PRON- have pass -PRON- on . " 

      " there be not a weak man in the lodge , " cry McGinty . " true as steel , 
      every man of -PRON- . and yet , by the Lord ! there be that skunk Morris . 
      what about -PRON- ? if any man give -PRON- away , -PRON- would be -PRON- . -PRON- have a mind 
      to send a couple of the boy round before evening to give -PRON- a 
      beat up and see what -PRON- can get from -PRON- . " 

      " well , there would be no harm in that , " McMurdo answer . " -PRON- will not 
      deny that -PRON- have a liking for Morris and would be sorry to see -PRON- 
      come to harm . -PRON- have speak to -PRON- once or twice over lodge matter , 
      and though -PRON- may not see -PRON- the same as -PRON- or -PRON- , -PRON- never seem 
      the sort that squeal . but still -PRON- be not for -PRON- to stand between 
      -PRON- and -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- will fix the old devil ! " say McGinty with an oath . " -PRON- have have -PRON- eye 
      on -PRON- this year past . " 

      " well , -PRON- know good about that , " McMurdo answer . " but whatever -PRON- 
      do must be to - morrow ; for -PRON- must lie low until the Pinkerton affair 
      be settle up . -PRON- can not afford to set the police buzzing , to - day of 
      all day . " 

      " true for -PRON- , " say McGinty . " and -PRON- will learn from Birdy Edwards 
      -PRON- where -PRON- get -PRON- news if -PRON- have to cut -PRON- heart out first . 
      do -PRON- seem to scent a trap ? " 

      McMurdo laugh . " -PRON- guess -PRON- take -PRON- on -PRON- weak point , " -PRON- say . " if 
      -PRON- could get on a good trail of the Scowrers , -PRON- be ready to follow -PRON- 
      into hell . -PRON- take -PRON- money , " McMurdo grin as -PRON- produce a wad of 
      dollar note , " and as much more when -PRON- have see all -PRON- paper . " 

      " what paper ? " 

      " well , there be no paper . but -PRON- fill -PRON- up about constitution 
      and book of rule and form of membership . -PRON- expect to get right 
      down to the end of everything before -PRON- leave . " 

      " Faith , -PRON- be right there , " say McGinty grimly . " do not -PRON- ask -PRON- 
      why -PRON- do not bring -PRON- the paper ? " 

      " as if -PRON- would carry such thing , and -PRON- a suspect man , and Captain 
      Marvin after speak to -PRON- this very day at the depot ! " 

      " ay , -PRON- hear of that , " say McGinty . " -PRON- guess the heavy end of this 
      business be come on to -PRON- . -PRON- could put -PRON- down an old shaft when 
      -PRON- have do with -PRON- ; but however -PRON- work -PRON- -PRON- can not get past the man 
      live at Hobson 's Patch and -PRON- be there to - day . " 

      McMurdo shrug -PRON- shoulder . " if -PRON- handle -PRON- right , -PRON- can 
      never prove the killing , " say -PRON- . " no one can see -PRON- come to the 
      house after dark , and -PRON- will lay to -PRON- that no one will see -PRON- go . now 
      see here , Councillor , -PRON- will show -PRON- -PRON- plan and -PRON- will ask -PRON- to fit 
      the other into -PRON- . -PRON- will all come in good time . very well . -PRON- 
      come at ten . -PRON- be to tap three time , and -PRON- to open the door for 
      -PRON- . then -PRON- will get behind -PRON- and shut -PRON- . -PRON- be -PRON- man then . " 

      " that be all easy and plain . " 

      " yes ; but the next step want consider . -PRON- be a hard proposition . 
      -PRON- be heavily armed . -PRON- have fool -PRON- proper , and yet -PRON- be likely to 
      be on -PRON- guard . suppose -PRON- show -PRON- right into a room with seven man 
      in -PRON- where -PRON- expect to find -PRON- alone . there be go to be 
      shoot , and somebody be go to be hurt . " 

      " that be so . " 

      " and the noise be go to bring every damned copper in the township 
      on top of -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- guess -PRON- be right . " 

      " this be how -PRON- should work -PRON- . -PRON- will all be in the big room -- same 
      as -PRON- see when -PRON- have a chat with -PRON- . -PRON- will open the door for -PRON- , 
      show -PRON- into the parlour beside the door , and leave -PRON- there while 
      -PRON- get the paper . that will give -PRON- the chance of tell -PRON- how 
      thing be shape . then -PRON- will go back to -PRON- with some fake 
      paper . as -PRON- be read -PRON- -PRON- will jump for -PRON- and get -PRON- grip on 
      -PRON- pistol arm . -PRON- will hear -PRON- call and in -PRON- will rush . the quicker 
      the well ; for -PRON- be as strong a man as -PRON- , and -PRON- may have more than 
      -PRON- can manage . but -PRON- allow that -PRON- can hold -PRON- till -PRON- come . " 

      " -PRON- be a good plan , " say McGinty . " the lodge will owe -PRON- a debt for 
      this . -PRON- guess when -PRON- move out of the chair -PRON- can put a name to the 
      man that be come after -PRON- . " 

      " sure , Councillor , -PRON- be little more than a recruit , " say McMurdo ; 
      but -PRON- face show what -PRON- think of the great man 's compliment . 

      when -PRON- have return home -PRON- make -PRON- own preparation for the grim 
      evening in front of -PRON- . first -PRON- clean , oil , and load -PRON- 
      Smith & Wesson revolver . then -PRON- survey the room in which the 
      detective be to be trap . -PRON- be a large apartment , with a long 
      deal table in the centre , and the big stove at one side . at each of 
      the other side be window . there be no shutter on these : only 
      light curtain which draw across . McMurdo examine these attentively . 
      no doubt -PRON- must have strike -PRON- that the apartment be very expose 
      for so secret a meeting . yet -PRON- distance from the road make -PRON- of 
      less consequence . finally -PRON- discuss the matter with -PRON- fellow 
      lodger . Scanlan , though a Scowrer , be an inoffensive little man who 
      be too weak to stand against the opinion of -PRON- comrade , but be 
      secretly horrify by the deed of blood at which -PRON- have sometimes 
      be force to assist . McMurdo tell -PRON- shortly what be intend . 

      " and if -PRON- be -PRON- , Mike Scanlan , -PRON- would take a night off and keep 
      clear of -PRON- . there will be bloody work here before morning . " 

      " well , indeed then , Mac , " Scanlan answer . " -PRON- be not the will but 
      the nerve that be want in -PRON- . when -PRON- see Manager Dunn go down at 
      the colliery yonder -PRON- be just more than -PRON- could stand . -PRON- be not make 
      for -PRON- , same as -PRON- or McGinty . if the lodge will think none the 
      bad of -PRON- , -PRON- will just do as -PRON- advise and leave -PRON- to yourself 
      for the evening . " 

      the man come in good time as arrange . -PRON- be outwardly 
      respectable citizen , well clothe and cleanly ; but a judge of face 
      would have read little hope for Birdy Edwards in those hard mouth 
      and remorseless eye . there be not a man in the room whose hand have 
      not be redden a dozen time before . -PRON- be as harden to 
      human murder as a butcher to sheep . 

      foremost , of course , both in appearance and in guilt , be the 
      formidable Boss . Harraway , the secretary , be a lean , bitter man with 
      a long , scraggy neck and nervous , jerky limbs , a man of incorruptible 
      fidelity where the finance of the order be concern , and with no 
      notion of justice or honesty to anyone beyond . the treasurer , Carter , 
      be a middle - aged man , with an impassive , rather sulky expression , 
      and a yellow parchment skin . -PRON- be a capable organizer , and the 
      actual detail of nearly every outrage have spring from -PRON- plot 
      brain . the two willaby be man of action , tall , lithe young fellow 
      with determined face , while -PRON- companion , Tiger Cormac , a heavy , 
      dark youth , be fear even by -PRON- own comrade for the ferocity of 
      -PRON- disposition . these be the man who assemble that night under 
      the roof of McMurdo for the killing of the Pinkerton detective . 

      -PRON- host have place whisky upon the table , and -PRON- have hasten to 
      prime -PRON- for the work before -PRON- . Baldwin and Cormac be 
      already half - drunk , and the liquor have bring out all -PRON- 
      ferocity . Cormac place -PRON- hand on the stove for an instant -- -PRON- have 
      be light , for the night be still cold . 

      " that will do , " say -PRON- , with an oath . 

      " ay , " say Baldwin , catch -PRON- meaning . " if -PRON- be strap to that , 
      -PRON- will have the truth out of -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- will have the truth out of -PRON- , never fear , " say McMurdo . -PRON- have 
      nerve of steel , this man ; for though the whole weight of the affair 
      be on -PRON- -PRON- manner be as cool and unconcerned as ever . the other 
      mark -PRON- and applaud . 

      " -PRON- be the one to handle -PRON- , " say the Boss approvingly . " not a 
      warning will -PRON- get till -PRON- hand be on -PRON- throat . -PRON- be a pity 
      there be no shutter to -PRON- window . " 

      McMurdo go from one to the other and draw the curtain tight . 
      " sure no one can spy upon -PRON- now . -PRON- be close upon the hour . " 

      " maybe -PRON- will not come . maybe -PRON- will get a sniff of danger , " say the 
      secretary . 

      " -PRON- will come , never fear , " McMurdo answer . " -PRON- be as eager to come 
      as -PRON- can be to see -PRON- . hark to that ! " 

      -PRON- all sit like wax figure , some with -PRON- glass arrest 
      halfway to -PRON- lip . three loud knock have sound at the door . 

      " Hush ! " McMurdo raise -PRON- hand in caution . an exulting glance go 
      round the circle , and hand be lay upon hide weapon . 

      " not a sound , for -PRON- life ! " McMurdo whisper , as -PRON- go from the 
      room , close the door carefully behind -PRON- . 

      with strained ear the murderer wait . -PRON- count the step of 
      -PRON- comrade down the passage . then -PRON- hear -PRON- open the outer 
      door . there be a few word as of greeting . then -PRON- be aware of 
      a strange step inside and of an unfamiliar voice . an instant later 
      come the slam of the door and the turning of the key in the lock . 
      -PRON- prey be safe within the trap . Tiger Cormac laugh horribly , 
      and Boss McGinty clap -PRON- great hand across -PRON- mouth . 

      " be quiet , -PRON- fool ! " -PRON- whisper . " -PRON- will be the undoing of -PRON- 
      yet ! " 

      there be a mutter of conversation from the next room . -PRON- seem 
      interminable . then the door open , and McMurdo appear , -PRON- finger 
      upon -PRON- lip . 

      -PRON- come to the end of the table and look round at -PRON- . a subtle 
      change have come over -PRON- . -PRON- manner be as of one who have great work 
      to do . -PRON- face have set into granite firmness . -PRON- eye shine with a 
      fierce excitement behind -PRON- spectacle . -PRON- have become a visible 
      leader of man . -PRON- stare at -PRON- with eager interest ; but -PRON- say 
      nothing . still with the same singular gaze -PRON- look from man to man . 

      " well ! " cry Boss McGinty at last . " be -PRON- here ? be Birdy Edwards 
      here ? " 

      " yes , " McMurdo answer slowly . " Birdy Edwards be here . -PRON- be birdy 
      Edwards ! " 

      there be ten second after that brief speech during which the room 
      may have be empty , so profound be the silence . the hissing of a 
      kettle upon the stove rise sharp and strident to the ear . seven white 
      face , all turn upward to this man who dominate -PRON- , be set 
      motionless with utter terror . then , with a sudden shivering of glass , 
      a bristle of glisten rifle barrel break through each window , 
      while the curtain be tear from -PRON- hanging . 

      at the sight Boss McGinty give the roar of a wound bear and plunge 
      for the half - open door . a level revolver meet -PRON- there with the 
      stern blue eye of Captain Marvin of the Mine Police gleam behind 
      the sight . the Boss recoil and fall back into -PRON- chair . 

      " -PRON- be safe there , Councillor , " say the man whom -PRON- have know as 
      McMurdo . " and -PRON- , Baldwin , if -PRON- do not take -PRON- hand off -PRON- 
      pistol , -PRON- will cheat the hangman yet . pull -PRON- out , or by the Lord 
      that make -PRON- -- there , that will do . there be forty armed man round 
      this house , and -PRON- can figure -PRON- out for -PRON- what chance -PRON- 
      have . take -PRON- pistol , Marvin ! " 

      there be no possible resistance under the menace of those rifle . 
      the man be disarm . Sulky , sheepish , and amazed , -PRON- still sit 
      round the table . 

      " -PRON- would like to say a word to -PRON- before -PRON- separate , " say the man who 
      have trap -PRON- . " -PRON- guess -PRON- may not meet again until -PRON- see -PRON- on 
      the stand in the courthouse . -PRON- will give -PRON- something to think over 
      between now and then . -PRON- know -PRON- now for what -PRON- be . at last -PRON- can 
      put -PRON- card on the table . -PRON- be Birdy Edwards of Pinkerton 's . -PRON- be 
      choose to break up -PRON- gang . -PRON- have a hard and dangerous game to 
      play . not a soul , not one soul , not -PRON- near and dear , know that 
      -PRON- be play -PRON- . only Captain Marvin here and -PRON- employer know 
      that . but -PRON- be over to - night , thank God , and -PRON- be the winner ! " 

      the seven pale , rigid face look up at -PRON- . there be unappeasable 
      hatred in -PRON- eye . -PRON- read the relentless threat . 

      " maybe -PRON- think that the game be not over yet . well , -PRON- take -PRON- 
      chance of that . anyhow , some of -PRON- will take no further hand , and 
      there be sixty more besides yourself that will see a jail this 
      night . -PRON- will tell -PRON- this , that when -PRON- be put upon this job -PRON- never 
      believe there be such a society as yours . -PRON- think -PRON- be paper 
      talk , and that -PRON- would prove -PRON- so . -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- be to do with 
      the freeman ; so -PRON- go to Chicago and be make one . then -PRON- be sure 
      than ever that -PRON- be just paper talk ; for -PRON- find no harm in the 
      society , but a deal of good . 

      " still , -PRON- have to carry out -PRON- job , and -PRON- come to the coal valley . 
      when -PRON- reach this place -PRON- learn that -PRON- be wrong and that -PRON- 
      be not a dime novel after all . so -PRON- stay to look after -PRON- . -PRON- never 
      kill a man in Chicago . -PRON- never mint a dollar in -PRON- life . those -PRON- 
      give -PRON- be as good as any other ; but -PRON- never spend money better . 
      but -PRON- know the way into -PRON- good wish and so -PRON- pretend to -PRON- 
      that the law be after -PRON- . -PRON- all work just as -PRON- think . 

      " so -PRON- join -PRON- infernal lodge , and -PRON- take -PRON- share in -PRON- 
      council . maybe -PRON- will say that -PRON- be as bad as -PRON- . -PRON- can say 
      what -PRON- like , so long as -PRON- get -PRON- . but what be the truth ? the 
      night -PRON- join -PRON- beat up old man Stanger . -PRON- could not warn -PRON- , for 
      there be no time ; but -PRON- hold -PRON- hand , Baldwin , when -PRON- would have 
      kill -PRON- . if ever -PRON- have suggest thing , so as to keep -PRON- place 
      among -PRON- , -PRON- be thing which -PRON- know -PRON- could prevent . -PRON- could not 
      save Dunn and Menzies , for -PRON- do not know enough ; but -PRON- will see that 
      -PRON- murderer be hang . -PRON- give Chester Wilcox warning , so that 
      when -PRON- blow -PRON- house in -PRON- and -PRON- folk be in hiding . there be 
      many a crime that -PRON- could not stop ; but if -PRON- look back and think 
      how often -PRON- man come home the other road , or be down in town when 
      -PRON- go for -PRON- , or stay indoor when -PRON- think -PRON- would come 
      out , -PRON- will see -PRON- work . " 

      " -PRON- blast traitor ! " hiss McGinty through -PRON- closed tooth . 

      " ay , John McGinty , -PRON- may call -PRON- that if -PRON- ease -PRON- smart . -PRON- 
      and -PRON- like have be the enemy of God and man in these part . -PRON- 
      take a man to get between -PRON- and the poor devil of man and woman 
      that -PRON- hold under -PRON- grip . there be just one way of do -PRON- , 
      and -PRON- do -PRON- . -PRON- call -PRON- a traitor ; but -PRON- guess there be many a 
      thousand will call -PRON- a deliverer that go down into hell to save 
      -PRON- . -PRON- have have three month of -PRON- . -PRON- would not have three such month 
      again if -PRON- let -PRON- loose in the treasury at Washington for -PRON- . -PRON- 
      have to stay till -PRON- have -PRON- all , every man and every secret right here 
      in this hand . -PRON- would have wait a little longer if -PRON- have not come to -PRON- 
      knowledge that -PRON- secret be come out . a letter have come into the 
      town that would have set -PRON- wise to -PRON- all . then -PRON- have to act and 
      act quickly . 

      " -PRON- have nothing more to say to -PRON- , except that when -PRON- time come -PRON- will 
      die the easy when -PRON- think of the work -PRON- have do in this valley . 
      now , Marvin , -PRON- will keep -PRON- no more . take -PRON- in and get -PRON- over . " 

      there be little more to tell . Scanlan have be give a seal note to 
      be leave at the address of Miss Ettie Shafter , a mission which -PRON- have 
      accept with a wink and a knowing smile . in the early hour of the 
      morning a beautiful woman and a much muffled man board a special 
      train which have be send by the railroad company , and make a swift , 
      unbroken journey out of the land of danger . -PRON- be the last time that 
      ever either Ettie or -PRON- lover set foot in the Valley of Fear . ten 
      day later -PRON- be marry in Chicago , with old Jacob Shafter as 
      witness of the wedding . 

      the trial of the Scowrers be hold far from the place where -PRON- 
      adherent may have terrify the guardian of the law . in vain -PRON- 
      struggle . in vain the money of the lodge -- money squeeze by 
      blackmail out of the whole countryside -- be spend like water in the 
      attempt to save -PRON- . that cold , clear , unimpassioned statement from 
      one who know every detail of -PRON- life , -PRON- organization , and 
      -PRON- crime be unshaken by all the wile of -PRON- defender . at 
      last after so many year -PRON- be break and scatter . the cloud 
      be lift forever from the valley . 

      McGinty meet -PRON- fate upon the scaffold , cringe and whining when the 
      last hour come . eight of -PRON- chief follower share -PRON- fate . 
      Fifty - odd have various degree of imprisonment . the work of Birdy 
      Edwards be complete . 

      and yet , as -PRON- have guess , the game be not over yet . there be 
      another hand to be play , and yet another and another . Ted Baldwin , 
      for one , have escape the scaffold ; so have the Willabys ; so have 
      several other of the fierce spirit of the gang . for ten year 
      -PRON- be out of the world , and then come a day when -PRON- be free 
      once more -- a day which Edwards , who know -PRON- man , be very sure would 
      be an end of -PRON- life of peace . -PRON- have swear an oath on all that 
      -PRON- think holy to have -PRON- blood as a vengeance for -PRON- 
      comrade . and well -PRON- strove to keep -PRON- vow ! 

      from Chicago -PRON- be chase , after two attempt so near success that 
      -PRON- be sure that the third would get -PRON- . from Chicago -PRON- go under 
      a changed name to California , and -PRON- be there that the light go 
      for a time out of -PRON- life when Ettie Edwards die . once again -PRON- be 
      nearly kill , and once again under the name of Douglas -PRON- work in 
      a lonely canyon , where with an english partner name Barker -PRON- 
      amass a fortune . at last there come a warning to -PRON- that the 
      bloodhound be on -PRON- track once more , and -PRON- clear -- only just in 
      time -- for England . and thence come the John Douglas who for a second 
      time marry a worthy mate , and live for five year as a Sussex 
      county gentleman , a life which end with the strange happening of 
      which -PRON- have hear . 





           CHAPTER VIII 
           epilogue 


      the police trial have pass , in which the case of John Douglas be 
      refer to a high court . so have the Quarter Sessions , at which -PRON- 
      be acquit as have act in self - defense . 

      " get -PRON- out of England at any cost , " write Holmes to the wife . 
      " there be force here which may be more dangerous than those -PRON- have 
      escape . there be no safety for -PRON- husband in England . " 

      two month have go by , and the case have to some extent pass from 
      -PRON- mind . then one morning there come an enigmatic note slip into 
      -PRON- letter box . " dear -PRON- , Mr. Holmes . dear -PRON- ! " say this singular 
      epistle . there be neither superscription nor signature . -PRON- laugh at 
      the quaint message ; but Holmes show unwonted seriousness . 

      " Deviltry , Watson ! " -PRON- remark , and sit long with a clouded brow . 

      late last night Mrs. Hudson , -PRON- landlady , bring up a message that 
      a gentleman wish to see Holmes , and that the matter be of the 
      utmost importance . close at the heel of -PRON- messenger come Cecil 
      Barker , -PRON- friend of the moate Manor House . -PRON- face be draw and 
      haggard . 

      " -PRON- have have bad news -- terrible news , Mr. Holmes , " say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- fear as much , " say Holmes . 

      " -PRON- have not have a cable , have -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- have have a note from someone who have . " 

      " -PRON- be poor Douglas . -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- name be Edwards ; but -PRON- will 
      always be Jack Douglas of Benito Canyon to -PRON- . -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- 
      start together for South Africa in the Palmyra three week ago . " 

      " exactly . " 

      " the ship reach Cape Town last night . -PRON- receive this cable from 
      Mrs. Douglas this morning:-- 

      " Jack have be lose overboard in gale off St. Helena . no one know 
      how accident occur . 
      " Ivy Douglas . " 

      " ha ! -PRON- come like that , do -PRON- ? " say Holmes , thoughtfully . " well , 
      -PRON- have no doubt -PRON- be well stage - manage . " 

      " -PRON- mean that -PRON- think there be no accident ? " 

      " none in the world . " 

      " -PRON- be murder ? " 

      " surely ! " 

      " so -PRON- think also . these infernal Scowrers , this cursed vindictive 
      nest of criminals-- " 

      " no , no , -PRON- good sir , " say Holmes . " there be a master hand here . -PRON- 
      be no case of saw - off shot - gun and clumsy six - shooter . -PRON- can 
      tell an old master by the sweep of -PRON- brush . -PRON- can tell a Moriarty 
      when -PRON- see one . this crime be from London , not from America . " 

      " but for what motive ? " 

      " because -PRON- be do by a man who can not afford to fail -- one whose 
      whole unique position depend upon the fact that all -PRON- do must 
      succeed . a great brain and a huge organization have be turn to 
      the extinction of one man . -PRON- be crush the nut with the hammer -- an 
      absurd extravagance of energy -- but the nut be very effectually 
      crush all the same . " 

      " how come this man to have anything to do with -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- can only say that the first word that ever come to -PRON- of the 
      business be from one of -PRON- lieutenant . these Americans be well 
      advise . have an english job to do , -PRON- take into partnership , as 
      any foreign criminal could do , this great consultant in crime . from 
      that moment -PRON- man be doom . at first -PRON- would content -PRON- 
      by use -PRON- machinery in order to find -PRON- victim . then -PRON- would 
      indicate how the matter may be treat . finally , when -PRON- read in 
      the report of the failure of this agent , -PRON- would step in -PRON- 
      with a master touch . -PRON- hear -PRON- warn this man at Birlstone Manor 
      House that the come danger be great than the past . be -PRON- right ? " 

      Barker beat -PRON- head with -PRON- clenched fist in -PRON- impotent anger . 

      " do -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- have to sit down under this ? do -PRON- say that 
      no one can ever get level with this king - devil ? " 

      " no , -PRON- do not say that , " say Holmes , and -PRON- eye seem to be 
      look far into the future . " -PRON- do not say that -PRON- can not be beat . but 
      -PRON- must give -PRON- time -- -PRON- must give -PRON- time ! " 

      -PRON- all sit in silence for some minute , while those fateful eye 
      still strain to pierce the veil . 









      ---------- 
      this text be provide to -PRON- " as - be " without any warranty . no 
      warranty of any kind , express or imply , be make to -PRON- as to 
      the text or any medium -PRON- may be on , include but not limited to 
      warranty of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose . 

      this text be format from various free ASCII and HTML variant . 
      see http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and 
      additional information about -PRON- . 

      this text come from the collection 's version 3.1 . 






 