



                               a SCANDAL in BOHEMIA 

                                Arthur Conan Doyle 







                                 table of content 
                                      chapter 1 
                                      chapter 2 
                                      chapter 3 















           CHAPTER -PRON- 



      to Sherlock Holmes -PRON- be always the woman . -PRON- have seldom hear -PRON- 
      mention -PRON- under any other name . in -PRON- eye -PRON- eclipse and 
      predominate the whole of -PRON- sex . -PRON- be not that -PRON- feel any 
      emotion akin to love for Irene Adler . all emotion , and that one 
      particularly , be abhorrent to -PRON- cold , precise but admirably 
      balanced mind . -PRON- be , -PRON- take -PRON- , the most perfect reasoning and 
      observe machine that the world have see , but as a lover -PRON- would 
      have place -PRON- in a false position . -PRON- never speak of the soft 
      passion , save with a gibe and a sneer . -PRON- be admirable thing 
      for the observer -- excellent for draw the veil from man 's motive 
      and action . but for the train reasoner to admit such intrusion 
      into -PRON- own delicate and finely adjust temperament be to 
      introduce a distracting factor which may throw a doubt upon all -PRON- 
      mental result . Grit in a sensitive instrument , or a crack in one of 
      -PRON- own high - power lense , would not be more disturbing than a strong 
      emotion in a nature such as -PRON- . and yet there be but one woman to 
      -PRON- , and that woman be the late Irene Adler , of dubious and 
      questionable memory . 

      -PRON- have see little of Holmes lately . -PRON- marriage have drift -PRON- away 
      from each other . -PRON- own complete happiness , and the home - centre 
      interest which rise up around the man who first find -PRON- master 
      of -PRON- own establishment , be sufficient to absorb all -PRON- attention , 
      while Holmes , who loathe every form of society with -PRON- whole 
      bohemian soul , remain in -PRON- lodging in Baker Street , bury among 
      -PRON- old book , and alternate from week to week between cocaine and 
      ambition , the drowsiness of the drug , and the fierce energy of -PRON- 
      own keen nature . -PRON- be still , as ever , deeply attract by the study 
      of crime , and occupy -PRON- immense faculty and extraordinary power 
      of observation in follow out those clue , and clear up those 
      mystery which have be abandon as hopeless by the official 
      police . from time to time -PRON- hear some vague account of -PRON- doing : 
      of -PRON- summon to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder , of -PRON- 
      clear up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brother at 
      Trincomalee , and finally of the mission which -PRON- have accomplish so 
      delicately and successfully for the reign family of Holland . 
      beyond these sign of -PRON- activity , however , which -PRON- merely share 
      with all the reader of the daily press , -PRON- know little of -PRON- former 
      friend and companion . 

      one night -- -PRON- be on the twentieth of March , 1888 - -I be return 
      from a journey to a patient ( for -PRON- have now return to civil 
      practice ) , when -PRON- way lead -PRON- through Baker Street . as -PRON- pass the 
      well - remember door , which must always be associate in -PRON- mind with 
      -PRON- wooing , and with the dark incident of the Study in Scarlet , -PRON- be 
      seize with a keen desire to see Holmes again , and to know how -PRON- be 
      employ -PRON- extraordinary power . -PRON- room be brilliantly light , 
      and , even as -PRON- look up , -PRON- see -PRON- tall , spare figure pass twice in 
      a dark silhouette against the blind . -PRON- be pace the room swiftly , 
      eagerly , with -PRON- head sink upon -PRON- chest and -PRON- hand clasp 
      behind -PRON- . to -PRON- , who know -PRON- every mood and habit , -PRON- attitude 
      and manner tell -PRON- own story . -PRON- be at work again . -PRON- have rise 
      out of -PRON- drug - create dream and be hot upon the scent of some new 
      problem . -PRON- ring the bell and be show up to the chamber which have 
      formerly be in part -PRON- own . 

      -PRON- manner be not effusive . -PRON- seldom be ; but -PRON- be glad , -PRON- think , 
      to see -PRON- . with hardly a word speak , but with a kindly eye , -PRON- wave 
      -PRON- to an armchair , throw across -PRON- case of cigar , and indicate a 
      spirit case and a gasogene in the corner . then -PRON- stand before the 
      fire and look -PRON- over in -PRON- singular introspective fashion . 

      " Wedlock suit -PRON- , " -PRON- remark . " -PRON- think , Watson , that -PRON- have put 
      on seven and a half pound since -PRON- see -PRON- . " 

      " seven ! " -PRON- answer . 

      " indeed , -PRON- should have think a little more . just a trifle more , -PRON- 
      fancy , Watson . and in practice again , -PRON- observe . -PRON- do not tell -PRON- 
      that -PRON- intend to go into harness . " 

      " then , how do -PRON- know ? " 

      " -PRON- see -PRON- , -PRON- deduce -PRON- . how do -PRON- know that -PRON- have be get 
      -PRON- very wet lately , and that -PRON- have a most clumsy and 
      careless servant girl ? " 

      " -PRON- dear Holmes , " say -PRON- , " this be too much . -PRON- would certainly have 
      be burn , have -PRON- live a few century ago . -PRON- be true that -PRON- have 
      a country walk on Thursday and come home in a dreadful mess , but as -PRON- 
      have change -PRON- clothe -PRON- can not imagine how -PRON- deduce -PRON- . as to Mary 
      Jane , -PRON- be incorrigible , and -PRON- wife have give -PRON- notice , but 
      there , again , -PRON- fail to see how -PRON- work -PRON- out . " 

      -PRON- chuckle to -PRON- and rub -PRON- long , nervous hand together . 

      " -PRON- be simplicity -PRON- , " say -PRON- ; " -PRON- eye tell -PRON- that on the 
      inside of -PRON- left shoe , just where the firelight strike -PRON- , the 
      leather be score by six almost parallel cut . obviously -PRON- have 
      be cause by someone who have very carelessly scrape round the 
      edge of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from -PRON- . hence , -PRON- 
      see , -PRON- double deduction that -PRON- have be out in vile weather , and 
      that -PRON- have a particularly malignant boot - slit speciman of the 
      London slavey . as to -PRON- practice , if a gentleman walk into -PRON- 
      room smell of iodoform , with a black mark of nitrate of silver 
      upon -PRON- right forefinger , and a bulge on the right side of -PRON- 
      top - hat to show where -PRON- have secrete -PRON- stethoscope , -PRON- must be 
      dull , indeed , if -PRON- do not pronounce -PRON- to be an active member of the 
      medical profession . " 

      -PRON- could not help laugh at the ease with which -PRON- explain -PRON- 
      process of deduction . " when -PRON- hear -PRON- give -PRON- reason , " -PRON- 
      remark , " the thing always appear to -PRON- to be so ridiculously 
      simple that -PRON- could easily do -PRON- -PRON- , though at each successive 
      instance of -PRON- reasoning -PRON- be baffle until -PRON- explain -PRON- 
      process . and yet -PRON- believe that -PRON- eye be as good as yours . " 

      " quite so , " -PRON- answer , light a cigarette , and throw -PRON- 
      down into an armchair . " -PRON- see , but -PRON- do not observe . the 
      distinction be clear . for example , -PRON- have frequently see the step 
      which lead up from the hall to this room . " 

      " frequently . " 

      " how often ? " 

      " well , some hundred of time . " 

      " then how many be there ? " 

      " how many ? -PRON- do not know . " 

      " quite so ! -PRON- have not observe . and yet -PRON- have see . that be just 
      -PRON- point . now , -PRON- know that there be seventeen step , because -PRON- have 
      both see and observe . by - the - way , since -PRON- be interested in these 
      little problem , and since -PRON- be good enough to chronicle one or 
      two of -PRON- trifling experience , -PRON- may be interested in this . " -PRON- 
      throw over a sheet of thick , pink - tint note - paper which have be 
      lie open upon the table . " -PRON- come by the last post , " say -PRON- . " read 
      -PRON- aloud . " 

      the note be undated , and without either signature or address . 

      " there will call upon -PRON- to - night , at a quarter to eight o'clock , " 
      -PRON- say , " a gentleman who desire to consult -PRON- upon a matter of the 
      very deep moment . -PRON- recent service to one of the royal house 
      of Europe have show that -PRON- be one who may safely be trust with 
      matter which be of an importance which can hardly be exaggerate . 
      this account of -PRON- -PRON- have from all quarter receive . be in -PRON- 
      chamber then at that hour , and do not take -PRON- amiss if -PRON- visitor 
      wear a mask . " 

      " this be indeed a mystery , " -PRON- remark . " what do -PRON- imagine that -PRON- 
      mean ? " 

      " -PRON- have no data yet . -PRON- be a capital mistake to theorize before one 
      have datum . insensibly one begin to twist fact to suit theory , 
      instead of theory to suit fact . but the note -PRON- . what do -PRON- 
      deduce from -PRON- ? " 

      -PRON- carefully examine the writing , and the paper upon which -PRON- be 
      write . 

      " the man who write -PRON- be presumably well to do , " -PRON- remark , 
      endeavour to imitate -PRON- companion 's process . " such paper could 
      not be buy under half a crown a packet . -PRON- be peculiarly strong 
      and stiff . " 

      " Peculiar -- that be the very word , " say Holmes . " -PRON- be not an English 
      paper at all . hold -PRON- up to the light . " 

      -PRON- do so , and see a large " e " with a small " g , " a " p , " and a large 
      " g " with a small " t " weave into the texture of the paper . 

      " what do -PRON- make of that ? " ask Holmes . 

      " the name of the maker , no doubt ; or -PRON- monogram , rather . " 

      " not at all . the ' g ' with the small ' t ' stand for ' Gesellschaft , ' 
      which be the German for ' company . ' -PRON- be a customary contraction like 
      -PRON- ' Co. ' ' p , ' of course , stand for ' Papier . ' now for the ' Eg . ' let 
      us glance at -PRON- Continental Gazetteer . " -PRON- take down a heavy brown 
      volume from -PRON- shelf . " Eglow , Eglonitz -- here -PRON- be , Egria . -PRON- be 
      in a German - speak country -- in Bohemia , not far from Carlsbad . 
      ' remarkable as be the scene of the death of Wallenstein , and for 
      -PRON- numerous glass - factory and paper - mill . ' ha , ha , -PRON- boy , what 
      do -PRON- make of that ? " -PRON- eye sparkle , and -PRON- send up a great blue 
      triumphant cloud from -PRON- cigarette . 

      " the paper be make in Bohemia , " -PRON- say . 

      " precisely . and the man who write the note be a German . do -PRON- note 
      the peculiar construction of the sentence--'This account of -PRON- -PRON- 
      have from all quarter receive . ' a Frenchman or Russian could not 
      have write that . -PRON- be the German who be so uncourteous to -PRON- 
      verb . -PRON- only remain , therefore , to discover what be want by this 
      german who write upon bohemian paper and prefer wear a mask to 
      show -PRON- face . and here -PRON- come , if -PRON- be not mistaken , to resolve 
      all -PRON- doubt . " 

      as -PRON- speak there be the sharp sound of horse ' hoofs and grate 
      wheel against the curb , follow by a sharp pull at the bell . Holmes 
      whistle . 

      " a pair , by the sound , " say -PRON- . " yes , " -PRON- continue , glance out of 
      the window . " a nice little brougham and a pair of beauty . a hundred 
      and fifty guinea apiece . there be money in this case , Watson , if 
      there be nothing else . " 

      " -PRON- think that -PRON- have better go , Holmes . " 

      " not a bit , Doctor . stay where -PRON- be . -PRON- be lose without -PRON- Boswell . 
      and this promise to be interesting . -PRON- would be a pity to miss -PRON- . " 

      " but -PRON- client-- " 

      " never mind -PRON- . -PRON- may want -PRON- help , and so may -PRON- . here -PRON- come . 
      sit down in that armchair , Doctor , and give -PRON- -PRON- good attention . " 

      a slow and heavy step , which have be hear upon the stair and in 
      the passage , pause immediately outside the door . then there be a 
      loud and authoritative tap . 

      " come in ! " say Holmes . 

      a man enter who could hardly have be less than six foot six 
      inch in height , with the chest and limb of a Hercules . -PRON- dress 
      be rich with a richness which would , in England , be look upon as 
      akin to bad taste . heavy band of astrakhan be slash across the 
      sleeve and front of -PRON- double - breast coat , while the deep blue 
      cloak which be throw over -PRON- shoulder be line with 
      flame - colour silk and secure at the neck with a brooch which 
      consist of a single flaming beryl . boot which extend halfway up 
      -PRON- calf , and which be trim at the top with rich brown fur , 
      complete the impression of barbaric opulence which be suggest by 
      -PRON- whole appearance . -PRON- carry a broad - brim hat in -PRON- hand , 
      while -PRON- wear across the upper part of -PRON- face , extend down past 
      the cheekbone , a black vizard mask , which -PRON- have apparently adjust 
      that very moment , for -PRON- hand be still raise to -PRON- as -PRON- enter . 
      from the low part of the face -PRON- appear to be a man of strong 
      character , with a thick , hang lip , and a long , straight chin 
      suggestive of resolution push to the length of obstinacy . 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- note ? " -PRON- ask with a deep harsh voice and a strongly 
      mark german accent . " -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- would call . " -PRON- look from 
      one to the other of -PRON- , as if uncertain which to address . 

      " pray take a seat , " say Holmes . " this be -PRON- friend and colleague , 
      Dr. Watson , who be occasionally good enough to help -PRON- in -PRON- case . 
      whom have -PRON- the honour to address ? " 

      " -PRON- may address -PRON- as the Count Von Kramm , a bohemian nobleman . -PRON- 
      understand that this gentleman , -PRON- friend , be a man of honour and 
      discretion , whom -PRON- may trust with a matter of the most extreme 
      importance . if not , -PRON- should much prefer to communicate with -PRON- 
      alone . " 

      -PRON- rise to go , but Holmes catch -PRON- by the wrist and push -PRON- back 
      into -PRON- chair . " -PRON- be both , or none , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- may say before 
      this gentleman anything which -PRON- may say to -PRON- . " 

      the Count shrug -PRON- broad shoulder . " then -PRON- must begin , " say -PRON- , 
      " by bind -PRON- both to absolute secrecy for two year ; at the end of 
      that time the matter will be of no importance . at present -PRON- be not 
      too much to say that -PRON- be of such weight -PRON- may have an influence 
      upon european history . " 

      " -PRON- promise , " say Holmes . 

      " and I. " 

      " -PRON- will excuse this mask , " continue -PRON- strange visitor . " the 
      august person who employ -PRON- wish -PRON- agent to be unknown to -PRON- , 
      and -PRON- may confess at once that the title by which -PRON- have just call 
      -PRON- be not exactly -PRON- own . " 

      " -PRON- be aware of -PRON- , " say Holmes dryly . 

      " the circumstance be of great delicacy , and every precaution have to 
      be take to quench what may grow to be an immense scandal and 
      seriously compromise one of the reign family of Europe . to speak 
      plainly , the matter implicate the great House of Ormstein , 
      hereditary king of Bohemia . " 

      " -PRON- be also aware of that , " murmured Holmes , settle -PRON- down in 
      -PRON- armchair and close -PRON- eye . 

      -PRON- visitor glance with some apparent surprise at the languid , 
      lounge figure of the man who have be no doubt depicted to -PRON- as 
      the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe . Holmes 
      slowly reopen -PRON- eye and look impatiently at -PRON- gigantic 
      client . 

      " if -PRON- Majesty would condescend to state -PRON- case , " -PRON- remark , 
      " -PRON- should be better able to advise -PRON- . " 

      the man spring from -PRON- chair and pace up and down the room in 
      uncontrollable agitation . then , with a gesture of desperation , -PRON- 
      tear the mask from -PRON- face and hurl -PRON- upon the ground . " -PRON- be 
      right , " -PRON- cry ; " -PRON- be the King . why should -PRON- attempt to conceal 
      -PRON- ? " 

      " why , indeed ? " murmured Holmes . " -PRON- Majesty have not speak before -PRON- 
      be aware that -PRON- be address Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von 
      Ormstein , Grand Duke of Cassel - Felstein , and hereditary king of 
      Bohemia . " 

      " but -PRON- can understand , " say -PRON- strange visitor , sit down once 
      more and pass -PRON- hand over -PRON- high white forehead , " -PRON- can 
      understand that -PRON- be not accustomed to do such business in -PRON- own 
      person . yet the matter be so delicate that -PRON- could not confide -PRON- to 
      an agent without put -PRON- in -PRON- power . -PRON- have come incognito 
      from Prague for the purpose of consult -PRON- . " 

      " then , pray consult , " say Holmes , shut -PRON- eye once more . 

      " the fact be briefly these : some five year ago , during a lengthy 
      visit to Warsaw , -PRON- make the acquaintance of the well - know 
      adventuress , Irene Adler . the name be no doubt familiar to -PRON- . " 

      " kindly look -PRON- up in -PRON- index , Doctor , " murmur Holmes without 
      open -PRON- eye . for many year -PRON- have adopt a system of docket 
      all paragraph concern man and thing , so that -PRON- be difficult to 
      name a subject or a person on which -PRON- could not at once furnish 
      information . in this case -PRON- find -PRON- biography sandwich in between 
      that of a hebrew rabbi and that of a staff - commander who have write 
      a monograph upon the deep - sea fish . 

      " let -PRON- see ! " say Holmes . " hum ! bear in New Jersey in the year 1858 . 
      Contralto -- hum ! La Scala , hum ! Prima donna Imperial Opera of 
      Warsaw -- yes ! retire from operatic stage -- ha ! live in London -- quite 
      so ! -PRON- Majesty , as -PRON- understand , become entangle with this young 
      person , write -PRON- some compromise letter , and be now desirous of 
      get those letter back . " 

      " precisely so . but how-- " 

      " be there a secret marriage ? " 

      " none . " 

      " no legal paper or certificate ? " 

      " none . " 

      " then -PRON- fail to follow -PRON- Majesty . if this young person should 
      produce -PRON- letter for blackmailing or other purpose , how be -PRON- to 
      prove -PRON- authenticity ? " 

      " there be the writing . " 

      " Pooh , pooh ! Forgery . " 

      " -PRON- private note - paper . " 

      " steal . " 

      " -PRON- own seal . " 

      " imitate . " 

      " -PRON- photograph . " 

      " Bought . " 

      " -PRON- be both in the photograph . " 

      " oh , dear ! that be very bad ! -PRON- Majesty have indeed commit an 
      indiscretion . " 

      " -PRON- be mad -- insane . " 

      " -PRON- have compromise -PRON- seriously . " 

      " -PRON- be only Crown Prince then . -PRON- be young . -PRON- be but thirty now . " 

      " -PRON- must be recover . " 

      " -PRON- have try and fail . " 

      " -PRON- Majesty must pay . -PRON- must be buy . " 

      " -PRON- will not sell . " 

      " steal , then . " 

      " five attempt have be make . twice burglar in -PRON- pay ransack -PRON- 
      house . once -PRON- divert -PRON- luggage when -PRON- travel . twice -PRON- have 
      be waylay . there have be no result . " 

      " no sign of -PRON- ? " 

      " absolutely none . " 

      Holmes laugh . " -PRON- be quite a pretty little problem , " say -PRON- . 

      " but a very serious one to -PRON- , " return the King reproachfully . 

      " very , indeed . and what do -PRON- propose to do with the photograph ? " 

      " to ruin -PRON- . " 

      " but how ? " 

      " -PRON- be about to be marry . " 

      " so -PRON- have hear . " 

      " to Clotilde Lothman von Saxe - Meningen , second daughter of the King 
      of Scandinavia . -PRON- may know the strict principle of -PRON- family . -PRON- 
      be -PRON- the very soul of delicacy . a shadow of a doubt as to -PRON- 
      conduct would bring the matter to an end . " 

      " and Irene Adler ? " 

      " threaten to send -PRON- the photograph . and -PRON- will do -PRON- . -PRON- know 
      that -PRON- will do -PRON- . -PRON- do not know -PRON- , but -PRON- have a soul of 
      steel . -PRON- have the face of the most beautiful of woman , and the mind 
      of the most resolute of man . rather than -PRON- should marry another 
      woman , there be no length to which -PRON- would not go -- none . " 

      " -PRON- be sure that -PRON- have not send -PRON- yet ? " 

      " -PRON- be sure . " 

      " and why ? " 

      " because -PRON- have say that -PRON- would send -PRON- on the day when the 
      betrothal be publicly proclaim . that will be next Monday . " 

      " oh , then -PRON- have three day yet , " say Holmes with a yawn . " that be 
      very fortunate , as -PRON- have one or two matter of importance to look 
      into just at present . -PRON- Majesty will , of course , stay in London 
      for the present ? " 

      " certainly . -PRON- will find -PRON- at the Langham under the name of the 
      Count Von Kramm . " 

      " then -PRON- shall drop -PRON- a line to let -PRON- know how -PRON- progress . " 

      " Pray do so . -PRON- shall be all anxiety . " 

      " then , as to money ? " 

      " -PRON- have carte blanche . " 

      " absolutely ? " 

      " -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- would give one of the province of -PRON- kingdom to 
      have that photograph . " 

      " and for present expense ? " 

      the King take a heavy chamois leather bag from under -PRON- cloak and 
      lay -PRON- on the table . 

      " there be three hundred pound in gold and seven hundred in note , " 
      -PRON- say . 

      Holmes scribble a receipt upon a sheet of -PRON- note - book and hand 
      -PRON- to -PRON- . 

      " and Mademoiselle 's address ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " be Briony Lodge , Serpentine Avenue , St. John 's Wood . " 

      Holmes take a note of -PRON- . " one other question , " say -PRON- . " be the 
      photograph a cabinet ? " 

      " -PRON- be . " 

      " then , good - night , -PRON- Majesty , and -PRON- trust that -PRON- shall soon have 
      some good news for -PRON- . and good - night , Watson , " -PRON- add , as the 
      wheel of the royal brougham roll down the street . " if -PRON- will be 
      good enough to call to - morrow afternoon at three o'clock -PRON- should 
      like to chat this little matter over with -PRON- . " 





           CHAPTER II 



      at three o'clock precisely -PRON- be at Baker Street , but Holmes have not 
      yet return . the landlady inform -PRON- that -PRON- have leave the house 
      shortly after eight o'clock in the morning . -PRON- sit down beside the 
      fire , however , with the intention of await -PRON- , however long -PRON- 
      may be . -PRON- be already deeply interested in -PRON- inquiry , for , though 
      -PRON- be surround by none of the grim and strange feature which be 
      associate with the two crime which -PRON- have already record , still , 
      the nature of the case and the exalted station of -PRON- client give -PRON- 
      a character of -PRON- own . indeed , apart from the nature of the 
      investigation which -PRON- friend have on hand , there be something in -PRON- 
      masterly grasp of a situation , and -PRON- keen , incisive reasoning , 
      which make -PRON- a pleasure to -PRON- to study -PRON- system of work , and to 
      follow the quick , subtle method by which -PRON- disentangle the most 
      inextricable mystery . so accustomed be -PRON- to -PRON- invariable success 
      that the very possibility of -PRON- failing have cease to enter into -PRON- 
      head . 

      -PRON- be close upon four before the door open , and a drunken - look 
      groom , ill - kempt and side - whisker , with an inflamed face and 
      disreputable clothe , walk into the room . Accustomed as -PRON- be to -PRON- 
      friend 's amazing power in the use of disguise , -PRON- have to look three 
      time before -PRON- be certain that -PRON- be indeed -PRON- . with a nod -PRON- 
      vanish into the bedroom , whence -PRON- emerge in five minute 
      tweed - suit and respectable , as of old . put -PRON- hand into -PRON- 
      pocket , -PRON- stretch out -PRON- leg in front of the fire and laugh 
      heartily for some minute . 

      " well , really ! " -PRON- cry , and then -PRON- choke and laugh again until 
      -PRON- be oblige to lie back , limp and helpless , in the chair . 

      " what be -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be quite too funny . -PRON- be sure -PRON- could never guess how -PRON- employ 
      -PRON- morning , or what -PRON- end by do . " 

      " -PRON- can not imagine . -PRON- suppose that -PRON- have be watch the habit , 
      and perhaps the house , of Miss Irene Adler . " 

      " quite so ; but the sequel be rather unusual . -PRON- will tell -PRON- , 
      however . -PRON- leave the house a little after eight o'clock this morning 
      in the character of a groom out of work . there be a wonderful 
      sympathy and freemasonry among horsey man . be one of -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      will know all that there be to know . -PRON- soon find Briony Lodge . -PRON- be 
      a bijou villa , with a garden at the back , but build out in front 
      right up to the road , two story . Chubb lock to the door . large 
      sit - room on the right side , well furnished , with long window 
      almost to the floor , and those preposterous english window fastener 
      which a child could open . behind there be nothing remarkable , save 
      that the passage window could be reach from the top of the 
      coach - house . -PRON- walk round -PRON- and examine -PRON- closely from every 
      point of view , but without note anything else of interest . 

      " -PRON- then lounge down the street and find , as -PRON- expect , that there 
      be a mews in a lane which run down by one wall of the garden . -PRON- 
      lend the ostler a hand in rub down -PRON- horse , and receive in 
      exchange twopence , a glass of half and half , two fill of shag 
      tobacco , and as much information as -PRON- could desire about Miss Adler , 
      to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in 
      whom -PRON- be not in the least interested , but whose biography -PRON- be 
      compel to listen to . " 

      " and what of Irene Adler ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " oh , -PRON- have turn all the man 's head down in that part . -PRON- be the 
      daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet . so say the 
      Serpentine - mews , to a man . -PRON- live quietly , sing at concert , 
      drive out at five every day , and return at seven sharp for dinner . 
      seldom go out at other time , except when -PRON- sing . have only one 
      male visitor , but a good deal of -PRON- . -PRON- be dark , handsome , and 
      dash , never call less than once a day , and often twice . -PRON- be a 
      Mr. Godfrey Norton , of the Inner Temple . see the advantage of a 
      cabman as a confidant . -PRON- have drive -PRON- home a dozen time from 
      Serpentine - mews , and know all about -PRON- . when -PRON- have listen to all 
      -PRON- have to tell , -PRON- begin to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once 
      more , and to think over -PRON- plan of campaign . 

      " this Godfrey Norton be evidently an important factor in the matter . 
      -PRON- be a lawyer . that sound ominous . what be the relation between 
      -PRON- , and what the object of -PRON- repeat visit ? be -PRON- -PRON- client , 
      -PRON- friend , or -PRON- mistress ? if the former , -PRON- have probably 
      transfer the photograph to -PRON- keeping . if the latter , -PRON- be less 
      likely . on the issue of this question depend whether -PRON- should 
      continue -PRON- work at Briony Lodge , or turn -PRON- attention to the 
      gentleman 's chamber in the Temple . -PRON- be a delicate point , and -PRON- 
      widen the field of -PRON- inquiry . -PRON- fear that -PRON- bear -PRON- with these 
      detail , but -PRON- have to let -PRON- see -PRON- little difficulty , if -PRON- be 
      to understand the situation . " 

      " -PRON- be follow -PRON- closely , " -PRON- answer . 

      " -PRON- be still balance the matter in -PRON- mind when a hansom cab drive 
      up to Briony Lodge , and a gentleman spring out . -PRON- be a remarkably 
      handsome man , dark , aquiline , and moustache -- evidently the man of 
      whom -PRON- have hear . -PRON- appear to be in a great hurry , shout to the 
      cabman to wait , and brush past the maid who open the door with 
      the air of a man who be thoroughly at home . 

      " -PRON- be in the house about half an hour , and -PRON- could catch glimpse 
      of -PRON- in the window of the sitting - room , pace up and down , 
      talk excitedly , and wave -PRON- arm . of -PRON- -PRON- could see nothing . 
      presently -PRON- emerge , look even more flurried than before . as -PRON- 
      step up to the cab , -PRON- pull a gold watch from -PRON- pocket and 
      look at -PRON- earnestly , ' drive like the devil , ' -PRON- shout , ' first to 
      Gross & Hankey 's in Regent Street , and then to the Church of St. 
      Monica in the Edgeware Road . half a guinea if -PRON- do -PRON- in twenty 
      minute ! ' 

      " away -PRON- go , and -PRON- be just wonder whether -PRON- should not do 
      well to follow -PRON- when up the lane come a neat little landau , the 
      coachman with -PRON- coat only half - button , and -PRON- tie under -PRON- ear , 
      while all the tag of -PRON- harness be stick out of the buckle . 
      -PRON- have not pull up before -PRON- shoot out of the hall door and into -PRON- . 
      -PRON- only catch a glimpse of -PRON- at the moment , but -PRON- be a lovely 
      woman , with a face that a man may die for . 

      " ' the Church of St. Monica , John , ' -PRON- cry , ' and half a sovereign 
      if -PRON- reach -PRON- in twenty minute . ' 

      " this be quite too good to lose , Watson . -PRON- be just balance 
      whether -PRON- should run for -PRON- , or whether -PRON- should perch behind -PRON- 
      landau when a cab come through the street . the driver look twice at 
      such a shabby fare , but -PRON- jump in before -PRON- could object . ' the 
      Church of St. Monica , ' say -PRON- , ' and half a sovereign if -PRON- reach -PRON- 
      in twenty minute . ' -PRON- be twenty - five minute to twelve , and of 
      course -PRON- be clear enough what be in the wind . 

      " -PRON- cabby drive fast . -PRON- do not think -PRON- ever drive faster , but the 
      other be there before -PRON- . the cab and the landau with -PRON- 
      steam horse be in front of the door when -PRON- arrive . -PRON- pay the 
      man and hurry into the church . there be not a soul there save the 
      two whom -PRON- have follow and a surplice clergyman , who seem to be 
      expostulate with -PRON- . -PRON- be all three standing in a knot in 
      front of the altar . -PRON- lounge up the side aisle like any other idler 
      who have drop into a church . suddenly , to -PRON- surprise , the three at 
      the altar face round to -PRON- , and Godfrey Norton come run as hard 
      as -PRON- could towards -PRON- . 

      " ' thank God , ' -PRON- cry . ' -PRON- will do . come ! come ! ' 

      " ' what then ? ' -PRON- ask . 

      " ' come , man , come , only three minute , or -PRON- will not be legal . ' 

      " -PRON- be half - drag up to the altar , and before -PRON- know where -PRON- be -PRON- 
      find -PRON- mumble response which be whisper in -PRON- ear , and 
      vouch for thing of which -PRON- know nothing , and generally assist 
      in the secure tying up of Irene Adler , spinster , to Godfrey Norton , 
      bachelor . -PRON- be all do in an instant , and there be the gentleman 
      thank -PRON- on the one side and the lady on the other , while the 
      clergyman beam on -PRON- in front . -PRON- be the most preposterous 
      position in which -PRON- ever find -PRON- in -PRON- life , and -PRON- be the 
      thought of -PRON- that start -PRON- laugh just now . -PRON- seem that there 
      have be some informality about -PRON- license , that the clergyman 
      absolutely refuse to marry -PRON- without a witness of some sort , and 
      that -PRON- lucky appearance save the bridegroom from have to sally 
      out into the street in search of a good man . the bride give -PRON- a 
      sovereign , and -PRON- mean to wear -PRON- on -PRON- watch - chain in memory of the 
      occasion . " 

      " this be a very unexpected turn of affair , " say -PRON- ; " and what then ? " 

      " well , -PRON- find -PRON- plan very seriously menace . -PRON- look as if the 
      pair may take an immediate departure , and so necessitate very 
      prompt and energetic measure on -PRON- part . at the church door , 
      however , -PRON- separate , -PRON- drive back to the Temple , and -PRON- to 
      -PRON- own house . ' -PRON- shall drive out in the park at five as usual , ' -PRON- 
      say as -PRON- leave -PRON- . -PRON- hear no more . -PRON- drive away in different 
      direction , and -PRON- go off to make -PRON- own arrangement . " 

      " which be ? " 

      " some cold beef and a glass of beer , " -PRON- answer , ring the bell . 
      " -PRON- have be too busy to think of food , and -PRON- be likely to be busy 
      still this evening . by the way , Doctor , -PRON- shall want -PRON- 
      co - operation . " 

      " -PRON- shall be delighted . " 

      " -PRON- do not mind break the law ? " 

      " not in the least . " 

      " nor run a chance of arrest ? " 

      " not in a good cause . " 

      " oh , the cause be excellent ! " 

      " then -PRON- be -PRON- man . " 

      " -PRON- be sure that -PRON- may rely on -PRON- . " 

      " but what be -PRON- -PRON- wish ? " 

      " when Mrs. Turner have bring in the tray -PRON- will make -PRON- clear to 
      -PRON- . now , " -PRON- say as -PRON- turn hungrily on the simple fare that -PRON- 
      landlady have provide , " -PRON- must discuss -PRON- while -PRON- eat , for -PRON- have not 
      much time . -PRON- be nearly five now . in two hour -PRON- must be on the 
      scene of action . Miss Irene , or Madame , rather , return from -PRON- 
      drive at seven . -PRON- must be at Briony Lodge to meet -PRON- . " 

      " and what then ? " 

      " -PRON- must leave that to -PRON- . -PRON- have already arrange what be to occur . 
      there be only one point on which -PRON- must insist . -PRON- must not 
      interfere , come what may . -PRON- understand ? " 

      " -PRON- be to be neutral ? " 

      " to do nothing whatever . there will probably be some small 
      unpleasantness . do not join in -PRON- . -PRON- will end in -PRON- be convey 
      into the house . four or five minute afterwards the sitting - room 
      window will open . -PRON- be to station -PRON- close to that open 
      window . " 

      " yes . " 

      " -PRON- be to watch -PRON- , for -PRON- will be visible to -PRON- . " 

      " yes . " 

      " and when -PRON- raise -PRON- hand -- so -- -PRON- will throw into the room what -PRON- 
      give -PRON- to throw , and will , at the same time , raise the cry of fire . 
      -PRON- quite follow -PRON- ? " 

      " entirely . " 

      " -PRON- be nothing very formidable , " -PRON- say , take a long cigar - shape 
      roll from -PRON- pocket . " -PRON- be an ordinary plumber 's smoke - rocket , 
      fit with a cap at either end to make -PRON- self - lighting . -PRON- task 
      be confine to that . when -PRON- raise -PRON- cry of fire , -PRON- will be 
      take up by quite a number of people . -PRON- may then walk to the end of 
      the street , and -PRON- will rejoin -PRON- in ten minute . -PRON- hope that -PRON- have 
      make -PRON- clear ? " 

      " -PRON- be to remain neutral , to get near the window , to watch -PRON- , and at 
      the signal to throw in this object , then to raise the cry of fire , 
      and to wait -PRON- at the corner of the street . " 

      " precisely . " 

      " then -PRON- may entirely rely on -PRON- . " 

      " that be excellent . -PRON- think , perhaps , -PRON- be almost time that -PRON- 
      prepare for the new role -PRON- have to play . " 

      -PRON- disappear into -PRON- bedroom and return in a few minute in the 
      character of an amiable and simple - minded Nonconformist clergyman . 
      -PRON- broad black hat , -PRON- baggy trouser , -PRON- white tie , -PRON- 
      sympathetic smile , and general look of peering and benevolent 
      curiosity be such as Mr. John Hare alone could have equal . -PRON- 
      be not merely that Holmes change -PRON- costume . -PRON- expression , -PRON- 
      manner , -PRON- very soul seem to vary with every fresh part that -PRON- 
      assume . the stage lose a fine actor , even as science lose an acute 
      reasoner , when -PRON- become a specialist in crime . 

      -PRON- be a quarter past six when -PRON- leave Baker Street , and -PRON- still 
      want ten minute to the hour when -PRON- find -PRON- in Serpentine 
      Avenue . -PRON- be already dusk , and the lamp be just be light as 
      -PRON- pace up and down in front of Briony Lodge , wait for the come 
      of -PRON- occupant . the house be just such as -PRON- have picture -PRON- from 
      Sherlock Holmes ' succinct description , but the locality appear to 
      be less private than -PRON- expect . on the contrary , for a small street 
      in a quiet neighbourhood , -PRON- be remarkably animate . there be a 
      group of shabbily dress man smoke and laugh in a corner , a 
      scissor - grinder with -PRON- wheel , two guardsman who be flirt with 
      a nurse - girl , and several well - dress young man who be lounge up 
      and down with cigar in -PRON- mouth . 

      " -PRON- see , " remark Holmes , as -PRON- pace to and fro in front of the 
      house , " this marriage rather simplify matter . the photograph 
      become a double - edge weapon now . the chance be that -PRON- would be 
      as averse to -PRON- be see by Mr. Godfrey Norton , as -PRON- client be 
      to -PRON- come to the eye of -PRON- princess . now the question be -- where 
      be -PRON- to find the photograph ? " 

      " where , indeed ? " 

      " -PRON- be most unlikely that -PRON- carry -PRON- about with -PRON- . -PRON- be 
      cabinet size . too large for easy concealment about a woman 's dress . 
      -PRON- know that the King be capable of have -PRON- waylaid and 
      search . two attempt of the sort have already be make . -PRON- may 
      take -PRON- , then , that -PRON- do not carry -PRON- about with -PRON- . " 

      " where , then ? " 

      " -PRON- banker or -PRON- lawyer . there be that double possibility . but -PRON- be 
      inclined to think neither . woman be naturally secretive , and -PRON- 
      like to do -PRON- own secreting . why should -PRON- hand -PRON- over to anyone 
      else ? -PRON- could trust -PRON- own guardianship , but -PRON- could not tell 
      what indirect or political influence may be bring to bear upon a 
      business man . besides , remember that -PRON- have resolve to use -PRON- 
      within a few day . -PRON- must be where -PRON- can lay -PRON- hand upon -PRON- . -PRON- 
      must be in -PRON- own house . " 

      " but -PRON- have twice be burgle . " 

      " Pshaw ! -PRON- do not know how to look . " 

      " but how will -PRON- look ? " 

      " -PRON- will not look . " 

      " what then ? " 

      " -PRON- will get -PRON- to show -PRON- . " 

      " but -PRON- will refuse . " 

      " -PRON- will not be able to . but -PRON- hear the rumble of wheel . -PRON- be -PRON- 
      carriage . now carry out -PRON- order to the letter . " 

      as -PRON- speak the gleam of the side - light of a carriage come round the 
      curve of the avenue . -PRON- be a smart little landau which rattle up to 
      the door of Briony Lodge . as -PRON- pull up , one of the loaf man at 
      the corner dash forward to open the door in the hope of earn a 
      copper , but be elbow away by another loafer , who have rush up 
      with the same intention . a fierce quarrel break out , which be 
      increase by the two guardsman , who take side with one of the 
      lounger , and by the scissor - grinder , who be equally hot upon the 
      other side . a blow be strike , and in an instant the lady , who have 
      step from -PRON- carriage , be the centre of a little knot of flushed 
      and struggle man , who strike savagely at each other with -PRON- 
      fist and stick . Holmes dash into the crowd to protect the lady ; 
      but just as -PRON- reach -PRON- -PRON- give a cry and drop to the ground , 
      with the blood run freely down -PRON- face . at -PRON- fall the 
      guardsman take to -PRON- heel in one direction and the lounger in 
      the other , while a number of better - dress people , who have watch 
      the scuffle without take part in -PRON- , crowd in to help the lady 
      and to attend to the injured man . Irene Adler , as -PRON- will still call 
      -PRON- , have hurry up the step ; but -PRON- stand at the top with -PRON- 
      superb figure outline against the light of the hall , look back 
      into the street . 

      " be the poor gentleman much hurt ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- be dead , " cry several voice . 

      " no , no , there be life in -PRON- ! " shout another . " but -PRON- will be go 
      before -PRON- can get -PRON- to hospital . " 

      " -PRON- be a brave fellow , " say a woman . " -PRON- would have have the lady 's 
      purse and watch if -PRON- have not be for -PRON- . -PRON- be a gang , and a 
      rough one , too . ah , -PRON- be breathe now . " 

      " -PRON- can not lie in the street . May -PRON- bring -PRON- in , marm ? " 

      " surely . bring -PRON- into the sitting - room . there be a comfortable 
      sofa . this way , please ! " 

      slowly and solemnly -PRON- be bear into Briony Lodge and lay out in 
      the principal room , while -PRON- still observe the proceeding from -PRON- 
      post by the window . the lamp have be light , but the blind have not 
      be draw , so that -PRON- could see Holmes as -PRON- lie upon the couch . -PRON- do 
      not know whether -PRON- be seize with compunction at that moment for 
      the part -PRON- be play , but -PRON- know that -PRON- never feel more heartily 
      ashamed of -PRON- in -PRON- life than when -PRON- see the beautiful creature 
      against whom -PRON- be conspire , or the grace and kindliness with which 
      -PRON- wait upon the injure man . and yet -PRON- would be the black 
      treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which -PRON- have 
      intrust to -PRON- . -PRON- harden -PRON- heart , and take the smoke - rocket from 
      under -PRON- ulster . after all , -PRON- think , -PRON- be not injure -PRON- . -PRON- 
      be but prevent -PRON- from injure another . 

      Holmes have sit up upon the couch , and -PRON- see -PRON- motion like a man who 
      be in need of air . a maid rush across and throw open the window . at 
      the same instant -PRON- see -PRON- raise -PRON- hand and at the signal -PRON- toss 
      -PRON- rocket into the room with a cry of " fire ! " the word be no sooner 
      out of -PRON- mouth than the whole crowd of spectator , well dressed and 
      ill -- gentleman , ostler , and servant - maid -- join in a general 
      shriek of " Fire ! " thick cloud of smoke curl through the room and 
      out at the open window . -PRON- catch a glimpse of rush figure , and a 
      moment later the voice of Holmes from within assure -PRON- that -PRON- 
      be a false alarm . slip through the shouting crowd -PRON- make -PRON- way 
      to the corner of the street , and in ten minute be rejoice to find 
      -PRON- friend 's arm in -PRON- , and to get away from the scene of uproar . -PRON- 
      walk swiftly and in silence for some few minute until -PRON- have 
      turn down one of the quiet street which lead towards the Edgeware 
      Road . 

      " -PRON- do -PRON- very nicely , Doctor , " -PRON- remark . " nothing could have 
      be well . -PRON- be all right . " 

      " -PRON- have the photograph ? " 

      " -PRON- know where -PRON- be . " 

      " and how do -PRON- find out ? " 

      " -PRON- show -PRON- , as -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- would . " 

      " -PRON- be still in the dark . " 

      " -PRON- do not wish to make a mystery , " say -PRON- , laugh . " the matter be 
      perfectly simple . -PRON- , of course , see that everyone in the street be 
      an accomplice . -PRON- be all engage for the evening . " 

      " -PRON- guess as much . " 

      " then , when the row break out , -PRON- have a little moist red paint in the 
      palm of -PRON- hand . -PRON- rush forward , fall down , clap -PRON- hand to -PRON- 
      face , and become a piteous spectacle . -PRON- be an old trick . " 

      " that also -PRON- could fathom . " 

      " then -PRON- carry -PRON- in . -PRON- be bind to have -PRON- in . what else 
      could -PRON- do ? and into -PRON- sitting - room , which be the very room 
      which -PRON- suspect . -PRON- lie between that and -PRON- bedroom , and -PRON- be 
      determined to see which . -PRON- lay -PRON- on a couch , -PRON- motion for air , 
      -PRON- be compel to open the window , and -PRON- have -PRON- chance . " 

      " how do that help -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be all - important . when a woman think that -PRON- house be on fire , 
      -PRON- instinct be at once to rush to the thing which -PRON- value most . 
      -PRON- be a perfectly overpower impulse , and -PRON- have more than once 
      take advantage of -PRON- . in the case of the Darlington substitution 
      scandal -PRON- be of use to -PRON- , and also in the Arnsworth Castle 
      business . a married woman grab at -PRON- baby ; an unmarried one reach 
      for -PRON- jewel - box . now -PRON- be clear to -PRON- that -PRON- lady of to - day have 
      nothing in the house more precious to -PRON- than what -PRON- be in quest 
      of . -PRON- would rush to secure -PRON- . the alarm of fire be admirably 
      do . the smoke and shouting be enough to shake nerve of steel . 
      -PRON- respond beautifully . the photograph be in a recess behind a 
      slide panel just above the right bell - pull . -PRON- be there in an 
      instant , and -PRON- catch a glimpse of -PRON- as -PRON- half - draw -PRON- out . when -PRON- 
      cry out that -PRON- be a false alarm , -PRON- replace -PRON- , glance at the 
      rocket , rush from the room , and -PRON- have not see -PRON- since . -PRON- rise , 
      and , make -PRON- excuse , escape from the house . -PRON- hesitate whether 
      to attempt to secure the photograph at once ; but the coachman have 
      come in , and as -PRON- be watch -PRON- narrowly -PRON- seem safe to wait . 
      a little over - precipitance may ruin all . " 

      " and now ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- quest be practically finish . -PRON- shall call with the King 
      to - morrow , and with -PRON- , if -PRON- care to come with -PRON- . -PRON- will be 
      show into the sitting - room to wait for the lady , but -PRON- be probable 
      that when -PRON- come -PRON- may find neither -PRON- nor the photograph . -PRON- 
      may be a satisfaction to -PRON- Majesty to regain -PRON- with -PRON- own 
      hand . " 

      " and when will -PRON- call ? " 

      " at eight in the morning . -PRON- will not be up , so that -PRON- shall have a 
      clear field . besides , -PRON- must be prompt , for this marriage may mean a 
      complete change in -PRON- life and habit . -PRON- must wire to the King 
      without delay . " 

      -PRON- have reach Baker Street and have stop at the door . -PRON- be 
      search -PRON- pocket for the key when someone passing say : 

      " good - night , Mister Sherlock Holmes . " 

      there be several people on the pavement at the time , but the 
      greeting appear to come from a slim youth in an ulster who have 
      hurry by . 

      " -PRON- have hear that voice before , " say Holmes , stare down the dimly 
      lit street . " now , -PRON- wonder who the deuce that could have be . " 





           CHAPTER III 



      -PRON- sleep at Baker Street that night , and -PRON- be engage upon -PRON- 
      toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rush into 
      the room . 

      " -PRON- have really get -PRON- ! " -PRON- cry , grasp Sherlock Holmes by 
      either shoulder and look eagerly into -PRON- face . 

      " not yet . " 

      " but -PRON- have hope ? " 

      " -PRON- have hope . " 

      " then , come . -PRON- be all impatience to be go . " 

      " -PRON- must have a cab . " 

      " no , -PRON- brougham be wait . " 

      " then that will simplify matter . " -PRON- descend and start off once 
      more for Briony Lodge . 

      " Irene Adler be married , " remark Holmes . 

      " married ! when ? " 

      " yesterday . " 

      " but to whom ? " 

      " to an english lawyer name Norton . " 

      " but -PRON- could not love -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be in hope that -PRON- do . " 

      " and why in hope ? " 

      " because -PRON- would spare -PRON- Majesty all fear of future annoyance . if 
      the lady love -PRON- husband , -PRON- do not love -PRON- Majesty . if -PRON- 
      do not love -PRON- Majesty , there be no reason why -PRON- should 
      interfere with -PRON- Majesty 's plan . " 

      " -PRON- be true . and yet -- well ! -PRON- wish -PRON- have be of -PRON- own station ! 
      what a queen -PRON- would have make ! " -PRON- relapse into a moody silence , 
      which be not break until -PRON- draw up in Serpentine Avenue . 

      the door of Briony Lodge be open , and an elderly woman stand upon 
      the step . -PRON- watch -PRON- with a sardonic eye as -PRON- step from the 
      brougham . 

      " Mr. Sherlock Holmes , -PRON- believe ? " say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be Mr. Holmes , " answer -PRON- companion , look at -PRON- with a 
      questioning and rather startled gaze . 

      " indeed ! -PRON- mistress tell -PRON- that -PRON- be likely to call . -PRON- leave 
      this morning with -PRON- husband by the 5.15 train from Charing Cross 
      for the Continent . " 

      " what ! " Sherlock Holmes stagger back , white with chagrin and 
      surprise . " do -PRON- mean that -PRON- have leave England ? " 

      " never to return . " 

      " and the paper ? " ask the King hoarsely . " all be lose . " 

      " -PRON- shall see . " -PRON- push past the servant and rush into the 
      drawing - room , follow by the King and -PRON- . the furniture be 
      scatter about in every direction , with dismantle shelf and open 
      drawer , as if the lady have hurriedly ransack -PRON- before -PRON- 
      flight . Holmes rush at the bell - pull , tear back a small slide 
      shutter , and , plunge in -PRON- hand , pull out a photograph and a 
      letter . the photograph be of Irene Adler -PRON- in evening dress , 
      the letter be superscribe to " Sherlock Holmes , Esq . to be leave till 
      call for . " -PRON- friend tear -PRON- open and -PRON- all three read -PRON- 
      together . -PRON- be date at midnight of the precede night and run in 
      this way : 

      " -PRON- dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes : 
      " -PRON- really do -PRON- very well . -PRON- take -PRON- in completely . until after 
      the alarm of fire , -PRON- have not a suspicion . but then , when -PRON- find how 
      -PRON- have betray -PRON- , -PRON- begin to think . -PRON- have be warn against 
      -PRON- month ago . -PRON- have be tell that if the King employ an agent -PRON- 
      would certainly be -PRON- . and -PRON- address have be give -PRON- . yet , with 
      all this , -PRON- make -PRON- reveal what -PRON- want to know . even after -PRON- 
      become suspicious , -PRON- find -PRON- hard to think evil of such a dear , kind 
      old clergyman . but , -PRON- know , -PRON- have be train as an actress 
      -PRON- . male costume be nothing new to -PRON- . -PRON- often take advantage of 
      the freedom which -PRON- give . -PRON- send John , the coachman , to watch -PRON- , 
      run up stair , get into -PRON- walking - clothe , as -PRON- call -PRON- , and come 
      down just as -PRON- depart . 
      " well , -PRON- follow -PRON- to -PRON- door , and so make sure that -PRON- be 
      really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sherlock Holmes . 
      then -PRON- , rather imprudently , wish -PRON- good - night , and start for 
      the Temple to see -PRON- husband . 
      " -PRON- both think the good resource be flight , when pursue by so 
      formidable an antagonist ; so -PRON- will find the nest empty when -PRON- 
      call to - morrow . as to the photograph , -PRON- client may rest in peace . 
      -PRON- love and be love by a well man than -PRON- . the King may do what -PRON- 
      will without hindrance from one whom -PRON- have cruelly wrong . -PRON- keep 
      -PRON- only to safeguard -PRON- , and to preserve a weapon which will 
      always secure -PRON- from any step which -PRON- may take in the future . -PRON- 
      leave a photograph which -PRON- may care to possess ; and -PRON- remain , dear 
      Mr. Sherlock Holmes , 
      " very truly your , 
      " Irene Norton , ne Adler . " 

      " what a woman -- oh , what a woman ! " cry the King of Bohemia , when -PRON- 
      have all three read this epistle . " do -PRON- not tell -PRON- how quick and 
      resolute -PRON- be ? Would -PRON- not have make an admirable queen ? be -PRON- 
      not a pity that -PRON- be not on -PRON- level ? " 

      " from what -PRON- have see of the lady -PRON- seem indeed to be on a very 
      different level to -PRON- Majesty , " say Holmes coldly . " -PRON- be sorry 
      that -PRON- have not be able to bring -PRON- Majesty 's business to a more 
      successful conclusion . " 

      " on the contrary , -PRON- dear sir , " cry the king ; " nothing could be 
      more successful . -PRON- know that -PRON- word be inviolate . the photograph be 
      now as safe as if -PRON- be in the fire . " 

      " -PRON- be glad to hear -PRON- Majesty say so . " 

      " -PRON- be immensely indebted to -PRON- . pray tell -PRON- in what way -PRON- can 
      reward -PRON- . this ring-- " -PRON- slip an emerald snake ring from -PRON- 
      finger and hold -PRON- out upon the palm of -PRON- hand . 

      " -PRON- Majesty have something which -PRON- should value even more highly , " 
      say Holmes . 

      " -PRON- have but to name -PRON- . " 

      " this photograph ! " 

      the King stare at -PRON- in amazement . 

      " Irene 's photograph ! " -PRON- cry . " certainly , if -PRON- wish -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- thank -PRON- Majesty . then there be no more to be do in the 
      matter . -PRON- have the honour to wish -PRON- a very good - morning . " -PRON- bow , 
      and , turn away without observe the hand which the King have 
      stretch out to -PRON- , -PRON- set off in -PRON- company for -PRON- chamber . 

      and that be how a great scandal threaten to affect the kingdom of 
      Bohemia , and how the good plan of Mr. Sherlock Holmes be beat by 
      a woman 's wit . -PRON- use to make merry over the cleverness of woman , 
      but -PRON- have not hear -PRON- do -PRON- of late . and when -PRON- speak of Irene 
      Adler , or when -PRON- refer to -PRON- photograph , -PRON- be always under the 
      honourable title of the woman . 









      ---------- 
      this text be provide to -PRON- " as - be " without any warranty . no 
      warranty of any kind , express or imply , be make to -PRON- as to 
      the text or any medium -PRON- may be on , include but not limited to 
      warranty of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose . 

      this text be format from various free ASCII and HTML variant . 
      see http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and 
      additional information about -PRON- . 

      this text come from the collection 's version 3.1 . 






 