



                                a STUDY in SCARLET 

                                Arthur Conan Doyle 







                                 table of content 

          Part -PRON- 
         Mr. Sherlock Holmes 
         the Science of Deduction 
         the Lauriston Garden Mystery 
         what John Rance have to tell 
         -PRON- advertisement bring a Visitor 
         Tobias Gregson show what -PRON- Can do 
         light in the Darkness 

          part ii 
         on the Great Alkali Plain 
         the Flower of Utah 
         John Ferrier Talks with the Prophet 
         a flight for Life 
         the Avenging Angels 
         a continuation of the Reminiscences of John Watson , M.D. 
         the Conclusion 



















                                       PART -PRON- 

                    ( be a reprint from the reminiscence of 
                               John H. Watson , M.D. , 
                       late of the Army Medical Department . ) 





           CHAPTER -PRON- 
           Mr. Sherlock Holmes 


      in the year 1878 -PRON- take -PRON- degree of Doctor of Medicine of the 
      University of London , and proceed to Netley to go through the 
      course prescribe for surgeon in the army . have complete -PRON- 
      study there , -PRON- be duly attach to the Fifth Northumberland 
      Fusiliers as Assistant Surgeon . the regiment be station in India 
      at the time , and before -PRON- could join -PRON- , the second afghan war have 
      break out . on landing at Bombay , -PRON- learn that -PRON- corps have 
      advance through the pass , and be already deep in the enemy 's 
      country . -PRON- follow , however , with many other officer who be in 
      the same situation as -PRON- , and succeed in reach Candahar in 
      safety , where -PRON- find -PRON- regiment , and at once enter upon -PRON- new 
      duty . 

      the campaign bring honour and promotion to many , but for -PRON- -PRON- have 
      nothing but misfortune and disaster . -PRON- be remove from -PRON- brigade 
      and attach to the Berkshires , with whom -PRON- serve at the fatal 
      battle of Maiwand . there -PRON- be strike on the shoulder by a Jezail 
      bullet , which shatter the bone and graze the subclavian artery . -PRON- 
      should have fall into the hand of the murderous Ghazis have -PRON- not 
      be for the devotion and courage show by Murray , -PRON- orderly , who 
      throw -PRON- across a pack - horse , and succeed in bring -PRON- safely to 
      the british line . 

      wear with pain , and weak from the prolonged hardship which -PRON- have 
      undergo , -PRON- be remove , with a great train of wounded sufferer , to 
      the base hospital at Peshawar . here -PRON- rally , and have already 
      improve so far as to be able to walk about the ward , and even to 
      bask a little upon the verandah , when -PRON- be strike down by enteric 
      fever , that curse of -PRON- indian possession . for month -PRON- life be 
      despair of , and when at last -PRON- come to -PRON- and become 
      convalescent , -PRON- be so weak and emaciated that a medical board 
      determine that not a day should be lose in send -PRON- back to 
      England . -PRON- be dispatch , accordingly , in the troopship Orontes , and 
      land a month later on Portsmouth jetty , with -PRON- health 
      irretrievably ruin , but with permission from a paternal government 
      to spend the next nine month in attempt to improve -PRON- . 

      -PRON- have neither kith nor kin in England , and be therefore as free as 
      air -- or as free as an income of eleven shilling and sixpence a day 
      will permit a man to be . under such circumstance , -PRON- naturally 
      gravitate to London , that great cesspool into which all the lounger 
      and idler of the Empire be irresistibly drain . there -PRON- stay for 
      some time at a private hotel in the Strand , lead a comfortless , 
      meaningless existence , and spend such money as -PRON- have , considerably 
      more freely than -PRON- ought . so alarm do the state of -PRON- finance 
      become , that -PRON- soon realize that -PRON- must either leave the metropolis 
      and rusticate somewhere in the country , or that -PRON- must make a 
      complete alteration in -PRON- style of living . choose the latter 
      alternative , -PRON- begin by make up -PRON- mind to leave the hotel , and to 
      take up -PRON- quarter in some less pretentious and less expensive 
      domicile . 

      on the very day that -PRON- have come to this conclusion , -PRON- be stand at 
      the Criterion Bar , when some one tap -PRON- on the shoulder , and 
      turn round -PRON- recognize young Stamford , who have be a dresser 
      under -PRON- at Bart 's . the sight of a friendly face in the great 
      wilderness of London be a pleasant thing indeed to a lonely man . in 
      old day Stamford have never be a particular crony of mine , but now 
      -PRON- hail -PRON- with enthusiasm , and -PRON- , in -PRON- turn , appear to be 
      delighted to see -PRON- . in the exuberance of -PRON- joy , -PRON- ask -PRON- to 
      lunch with -PRON- at the Holborn , and -PRON- start off together in a 
      hansom . 

      " whatever have -PRON- be do with -PRON- , Watson ? " -PRON- ask in 
      undisguised wonder , as -PRON- rattle through the crowded London street . 
      " -PRON- be as thin as a lath and as brown as a nut . " 

      -PRON- give -PRON- a short sketch of -PRON- adventure , and have hardly conclude 
      -PRON- by the time that -PRON- reach -PRON- destination . 

      " poor devil ! " -PRON- say , commiseratingly , after -PRON- have listen to -PRON- 
      misfortune . " what be -PRON- up to now ? " 

      " look for lodging , " -PRON- answer . " try to solve the problem as 
      to whether -PRON- be possible to get comfortable room at a reasonable 
      price . " 

      " that be a strange thing , " remark -PRON- companion ; " -PRON- be the second 
      man to - day that have use that expression to -PRON- . " 

      " and who be the first ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " a fellow who be work at the chemical laboratory up at the 
      hospital . -PRON- be bemoan -PRON- this morning because -PRON- could not 
      get someone to go half with -PRON- in some nice room which -PRON- have 
      find , and which be too much for -PRON- purse . " 

      " by Jove ! " -PRON- cry , " if -PRON- really want someone to share the room 
      and the expense , -PRON- be the very man for -PRON- . -PRON- should prefer have a 
      partner to be alone . " 

      Young Stamford look rather strangely at -PRON- over -PRON- wine - glass . 
      " -PRON- do not know Sherlock Holmes yet , " -PRON- say ; " perhaps -PRON- would not 
      care for -PRON- as a constant companion . " 

      " why , what be there against -PRON- ? " 

      " oh , -PRON- do not say there be anything against -PRON- . -PRON- be a little 
      queer in -PRON- idea -- an enthusiast in some branch of science . as far 
      as -PRON- know -PRON- be a decent fellow enough . " 

      " a medical student , -PRON- suppose ? " say I. 

      " no -- -PRON- have no idea what -PRON- intend to go in for . -PRON- believe -PRON- be 
      well up in anatomy , and -PRON- be a first - class chemist ; but , as far as -PRON- 
      know , -PRON- have never take out any systematic medical class . -PRON- 
      study be very desultory and eccentric , but -PRON- have amass a lot of 
      out - of - the way knowledge which would astonish -PRON- professor . " 

      " do -PRON- never ask -PRON- what -PRON- be go in for ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " no ; -PRON- be not a man that -PRON- be easy to draw out , though -PRON- can be 
      communicative enough when the fancy seize -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- should like to meet -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " if -PRON- be to lodge with anyone , -PRON- 
      should prefer a man of studious and quiet habit . -PRON- be not strong 
      enough yet to stand much noise or excitement . -PRON- have enough of both in 
      Afghanistan to last -PRON- for the remainder of -PRON- natural existence . how 
      could -PRON- meet this friend of -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be sure to be at the laboratory , " return -PRON- companion . " -PRON- 
      either avoid the place for week , or else -PRON- work there from 
      morning to night . if -PRON- like , -PRON- shall drive round together after 
      luncheon . " 

      " certainly , " -PRON- answer , and the conversation drift away into other 
      channel . 

      as -PRON- make -PRON- way to the hospital after leave the Holborn , 
      Stamford give -PRON- a few more particular about the gentleman whom -PRON- 
      propose to take as a fellow - lodger . 

      " -PRON- must not blame -PRON- if -PRON- do not get on with -PRON- , " -PRON- say ; " -PRON- know 
      nothing more of -PRON- than -PRON- have learn from meet -PRON- occasionally 
      in the laboratory . -PRON- propose this arrangement , so -PRON- must not 
      hold -PRON- responsible . " 

      " if -PRON- do not get on -PRON- will be easy to part company , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- 
      seem to -PRON- , Stamford , " -PRON- add , look hard at -PRON- companion , " that 
      -PRON- have some reason for wash -PRON- hand of the matter . be this 
      fellow 's temper so formidable , or what be -PRON- ? do not be mealy - mouthed 
      about -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be not easy to express the inexpressible , " -PRON- answer with a 
      laugh . " Holmes be a little too scientific for -PRON- taste -- -PRON- 
      approach to cold - bloodedness . -PRON- could imagine -PRON- give a friend a 
      little pinch of the late vegetable alkaloid , not out of 
      malevolence , -PRON- understand , but simply out of a spirit of inquiry in 
      order to have an accurate idea of the effect . to do -PRON- justice , -PRON- 
      think that -PRON- would take -PRON- -PRON- with the same readiness . -PRON- 
      appear to have a passion for definite and exact knowledge . " 

      " very right too . " 

      " yes , but -PRON- may be push to excess . when -PRON- come to beat the 
      subject in the dissecting - room with a stick , -PRON- be certainly take 
      rather a bizarre shape . " 

      " beat the subject ! " 

      " yes , to verify how far bruise may be produce after death . -PRON- see 
      -PRON- at -PRON- with -PRON- own eye . " 

      " and yet -PRON- say -PRON- be not a medical student ? " 

      " no . Heaven know what the object of -PRON- study be . but here -PRON- 
      be , and -PRON- must form -PRON- own impression about -PRON- . " as -PRON- speak , 
      -PRON- turn down a narrow lane and pass through a small side - door , 
      which open into a wing of the great hospital . -PRON- be familiar 
      ground to -PRON- , and -PRON- need no guiding as -PRON- ascend the bleak stone 
      staircase and make -PRON- way down the long corridor with -PRON- vista of 
      whitewash wall and dun - colour door . near the further end a low 
      arched passage branch away from -PRON- and lead to the chemical 
      laboratory . 

      this be a lofty chamber , line and litter with countless bottle . 
      broad , low table be scatter about , which bristle with retort , 
      test - tube , and little Bunsen lamp , with -PRON- blue flickering 
      flame . there be only one student in the room , who be bend over 
      a distant table absorb in -PRON- work . at the sound of -PRON- step -PRON- 
      glance round and spring to -PRON- foot with a cry of pleasure . " -PRON- have 
      find -PRON- ! -PRON- have find -PRON- , " -PRON- shout to -PRON- companion , run towards 
      -PRON- with a test - tube in -PRON- hand . " -PRON- have find a re - agent which be 
      precipitate by hoemoglobin , and by nothing else . " have -PRON- discover 
      a gold mine , great delight could not have shine upon -PRON- feature . 

      " Dr. Watson , Mr. Sherlock Holmes , " say Stamford , introduce -PRON- . 

      " how be -PRON- ? " -PRON- say cordially , grip -PRON- hand with a strength 
      for which -PRON- should hardly have give -PRON- credit . " -PRON- have be in 
      Afghanistan , -PRON- perceive . " 

      " how on earth do -PRON- know that ? " -PRON- ask in astonishment . 

      " never mind , " say -PRON- , chuckle to -PRON- . " the question now be 
      about hoemoglobin . no doubt -PRON- see the significance of this 
      discovery of mine ? " 

      " -PRON- be interesting , chemically , no doubt , " -PRON- answer , " but 
      practically-- " 

      " why , man , -PRON- be the most practical medico - legal discovery for year . 
      do not -PRON- see that -PRON- give -PRON- an infallible test for blood stain . 
      come over here now ! " -PRON- seize -PRON- by the coat - sleeve in -PRON- 
      eagerness , and draw -PRON- over to the table at which -PRON- have be 
      work . " let -PRON- have some fresh blood , " -PRON- say , dig a long 
      bodkin into -PRON- finger , and draw off the result drop of blood 
      in a chemical pipette . " now , -PRON- add this small quantity of blood to a 
      litre of water . -PRON- perceive that the result mixture have the 
      appearance of pure water . the proportion of blood can not be more than 
      one in a million . -PRON- have no doubt , however , that -PRON- shall be able to 
      obtain the characteristic reaction . " as -PRON- speak , -PRON- throw into the 
      vessel a few white crystal , and then add some drop of a 
      transparent fluid . in an instant the content assume a dull mahogany 
      colour , and a brownish dust be precipitate to the bottom of the 
      glass jar . 

      " ha ! ha ! " -PRON- cry , clap -PRON- hand , and look as delighted as a 
      child with a new toy . " what do -PRON- think of that ? " 

      " -PRON- seem to be a very delicate test , " -PRON- remark . 

      " beautiful ! beautiful ! the old guiacum test be very clumsy and 
      uncertain . so be the microscopic examination for blood corpuscle . 
      the latter be valueless if the stain be a few hour old . now , this 
      appear to act as well whether the blood be old or new . have this test 
      be invent , there be hundred of man now walk the earth who 
      would long ago have pay the penalty of -PRON- crime . " 

      " indeed ! " -PRON- murmur . 

      " criminal case be continually hinge upon that one point . a man be 
      suspect of a crime month perhaps after -PRON- have be commit . -PRON- 
      linen or clothe be examine , and brownish stain discover upon 
      -PRON- . be -PRON- blood stain , or mud stain , or rust stain , or fruit 
      stain , or what be -PRON- ? that be a question which have puzzle many 
      an expert , and why ? because there be no reliable test . now -PRON- have 
      the Sherlock Holmes ' test , and there will no longer be any 
      difficulty . " 

      -PRON- eye fairly glitter as -PRON- speak , and -PRON- put -PRON- hand over -PRON- 
      heart and bow as if to some applaud crowd conjure up by -PRON- 
      imagination . 

      " -PRON- be to be congratulate , " -PRON- remark , considerably surprised at 
      -PRON- enthusiasm . 

      " there be the case of Von Bischoff at Frankfort last year . -PRON- would 
      certainly have be hang have this test be in existence . then there 
      be Mason of Bradford , and the notorious Muller , and Lefevre of 
      Montpellier , and Samson of new Orleans . -PRON- could name a score of case 
      in which -PRON- would have be decisive . " 

      " -PRON- seem to be a walk calendar of crime , " say Stamford with a 
      laugh . " -PRON- may start a paper on those line . call -PRON- the ' Police 
      News of the Past . ' " 

      " very interesting reading -PRON- may be make , too , " remark Sherlock 
      Holmes , stick a small piece of plaster over the prick on -PRON- 
      finger . " -PRON- have to be careful , " -PRON- continue , turn to -PRON- with a 
      smile , " for -PRON- dabble with poison a good deal . " -PRON- hold out -PRON- hand 
      as -PRON- speak , and -PRON- notice that -PRON- be all mottle over with similar 
      piece of plaster , and discolour with strong acid . 

      " -PRON- come here on business , " say Stamford , sit down on a high 
      three - legged stool , and push another one in -PRON- direction with -PRON- 
      foot . " -PRON- friend here want to take digging , and as -PRON- be 
      complain that -PRON- could get no one to go half with -PRON- , -PRON- 
      think that -PRON- have better bring -PRON- together . " 

      Sherlock Holmes seem delighted at the idea of share -PRON- room 
      with -PRON- . " -PRON- have -PRON- eye on a suite in Baker Street , " -PRON- say , " which 
      would suit -PRON- down to the ground . -PRON- do not mind the smell of strong 
      tobacco , -PRON- hope ? " 

      " -PRON- always smoke ' ship 's ' -PRON- , " -PRON- answer . 

      " that be good enough . -PRON- generally have chemical about , and 
      occasionally do experiment . Would that annoy -PRON- ? " 

      " by no means . " 

      " let -PRON- see -- what be -PRON- other shortcoming . -PRON- get in the dump at 
      time , and do not open -PRON- mouth for day on end . -PRON- must not think -PRON- 
      be sulky when -PRON- do that . just let -PRON- alone , and -PRON- will soon be right . 
      what have -PRON- to confess now ? -PRON- be just as well for two fellow to 
      know the bad of one another before -PRON- begin to live together . " 

      -PRON- laugh at this cross - examination . " -PRON- keep a bull pup , " -PRON- say , 
      " and -PRON- object to row because -PRON- nerve be shake , and -PRON- get up at 
      all sort of ungodly hour , and -PRON- be extremely lazy . -PRON- have another 
      set of vice when -PRON- be well , but those be the principal one at 
      present . " 

      " do -PRON- include violin - playing in -PRON- category of row ? " -PRON- ask , 
      anxiously . 

      " -PRON- depend on the player , " -PRON- answer . " a well - play violin be a 
      treat for the god -- a badly - play one-- " 

      " oh , that be all right , " -PRON- cry , with a merry laugh . " -PRON- think -PRON- may 
      consider the thing as settle -- that is , if the room be agreeable to 
      -PRON- . " 

      " when shall -PRON- see -PRON- ? " 

      " call for -PRON- here at noon to - morrow , and -PRON- will go together and settle 
      everything , " -PRON- answer . 

      " all right -- noon exactly , " say -PRON- , shake -PRON- hand . 

      -PRON- leave -PRON- work among -PRON- chemical , and -PRON- walk together 
      towards -PRON- hotel . 

      " by the way , " -PRON- ask suddenly , stop and turn upon Stamford , 
      " how the deuce do -PRON- know that -PRON- have come from Afghanistan ? " 

      -PRON- companion smile an enigmatical smile . " that be just -PRON- little 
      peculiarity , " -PRON- say . " a good many people have want to know how -PRON- 
      find thing out . " 

      " oh ! a mystery be -PRON- ? " -PRON- cry , rub -PRON- hand . " this be very 
      piquant . -PRON- be much oblige to -PRON- for bring -PRON- together . ' the 
      proper study of mankind be man , ' -PRON- know . " 

      " -PRON- must study -PRON- , then , " Stamford say , as -PRON- bid -PRON- good - bye . 
      " -PRON- will find -PRON- a knotty problem , though . -PRON- will wager -PRON- learn more 
      about -PRON- than -PRON- about -PRON- . good - bye . " 

      " good - bye , " -PRON- answer , and stroll on to -PRON- hotel , considerably 
      interested in -PRON- new acquaintance . 





           CHAPTER II 
           the Science of Deduction 


      -PRON- meet next day as -PRON- have arrange , and inspect the room at no . 
      221b , Baker Street , of which -PRON- have speak at -PRON- meeting . -PRON- 
      consist of a couple of comfortable bed - room and a single large 
      airy sitting - room , cheerfully furnish , and illuminate by two broad 
      window . so desirable in every way be the apartment , and so 
      moderate do the term seem when divide between -PRON- , that the bargain 
      be conclude upon the spot , and -PRON- at once enter into possession . 
      that very evening -PRON- move -PRON- thing round from the hotel , and on the 
      follow morning Sherlock Holmes follow -PRON- with several box and 
      portmanteaus . for a day or two -PRON- be busily employ in unpack 
      and lay out -PRON- property to the good advantage . that do , -PRON- 
      gradually begin to settle down and to accommodate -PRON- to -PRON- 
      new surrounding . 

      Holmes be certainly not a difficult man to live with . -PRON- be quiet 
      in -PRON- way , and -PRON- habit be regular . -PRON- be rare for -PRON- to be 
      up after ten at night , and -PRON- have invariably breakfast and go out 
      before -PRON- rise in the morning . sometimes -PRON- spend -PRON- day at the 
      chemical laboratory , sometimes in the dissecting - room , and 
      occasionally in long walk , which appear to take -PRON- into the 
      low portion of the City . nothing could exceed -PRON- energy when the 
      work fit be upon -PRON- ; but now and again a reaction would seize 
      -PRON- , and for day on end -PRON- would lie upon the sofa in the 
      sit - room , hardly utter a word or move a muscle from morning 
      to night . on these occasion -PRON- have notice such a dreamy , vacant 
      expression in -PRON- eye , that -PRON- may have suspect -PRON- of be 
      addict to the use of some narcotic , have not the temperance and 
      cleanliness of -PRON- whole life forbid such a notion . 

      as the week go by , -PRON- interest in -PRON- and -PRON- curiosity as to -PRON- 
      aim in life , gradually deepen and increase . -PRON- very person and 
      appearance be such as to strike the attention of the most casual 
      observer . in height -PRON- be rather over six foot , and so excessively 
      lean that -PRON- seem to be considerably tall . -PRON- eye be sharp 
      and pierce , save during those interval of torpor to which -PRON- have 
      allude ; and -PRON- thin , hawk - like nose give -PRON- whole expression an 
      air of alertness and decision . -PRON- chin , too , have the prominence and 
      squareness which mark the man of determination . -PRON- hand be 
      invariably blot with ink and stain with chemical , yet -PRON- be 
      possess of extraordinary delicacy of touch , as -PRON- frequently have 
      occasion to observe when -PRON- watch -PRON- manipulate -PRON- fragile 
      philosophical instrument . 

      the reader may set -PRON- down as a hopeless busybody , when -PRON- confess how 
      much this man stimulate -PRON- curiosity , and how often -PRON- endeavour to 
      break through the reticence which -PRON- show on all that concerned 
      -PRON- . before pronounce judgment , however , be -PRON- remember , how 
      objectless be -PRON- life , and how little there be to engage -PRON- 
      attention . -PRON- health forbid -PRON- from venture out unless the weather 
      be exceptionally genial , and -PRON- have no friend who would call upon -PRON- 
      and break the monotony of -PRON- daily existence . under these 
      circumstance , -PRON- eagerly hail the little mystery which hang around 
      -PRON- companion , and spend much of -PRON- time in endeavour to unravel 
      -PRON- . 

      -PRON- be not study medicine . -PRON- have -PRON- , in reply to a question , 
      confirm Stamford 's opinion upon that point . neither do -PRON- appear 
      to have pursue any course of reading which may fit -PRON- for a 
      degree in science or any other recognize portal which would give -PRON- 
      an entrance into the learned world . yet -PRON- zeal for certain study 
      be remarkable , and within eccentric limit -PRON- knowledge be so 
      extraordinarily ample and minute that -PRON- observation have fairly 
      astound -PRON- . surely no man would work so hard or attain such precise 
      information unless -PRON- have some definite end in view . desultory 
      reader be seldom remarkable for the exactness of -PRON- learning . no 
      man burden -PRON- mind with small matter unless -PRON- have some very good 
      reason for do so . 

      -PRON- ignorance be as remarkable as -PRON- knowledge . of contemporary 
      literature , philosophy and politic -PRON- appear to know next to 
      nothing . upon -PRON- quote Thomas Carlyle , -PRON- inquire in the naive 
      way who -PRON- may be and what -PRON- have do . -PRON- surprise reach a 
      climax , however , when -PRON- find incidentally that -PRON- be ignorant of 
      the Copernican Theory and of the composition of the Solar System . 
      that any civilized human being in this nineteenth century should not 
      be aware that the earth travel round the sun appear to be to -PRON- 
      such an extraordinary fact that -PRON- could hardly realize -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- appear to be astonish , " -PRON- say , smile at -PRON- expression of 
      surprise . " now that -PRON- do know -PRON- -PRON- shall do -PRON- good to forget -PRON- . " 

      " to forget -PRON- ! " 

      " -PRON- see , " -PRON- explain , " -PRON- consider that a man 's brain originally be 
      like a little empty attic , and -PRON- have to stock -PRON- with such 
      furniture as -PRON- choose . a fool take in all the lumber of every sort 
      that -PRON- come across , so that the knowledge which may be useful to 
      -PRON- get crowd out , or at best be jumble up with a lot of other 
      thing so that -PRON- have a difficulty in lay -PRON- hand upon -PRON- . now 
      the skilful workman be very careful indeed as to what -PRON- take into 
      -PRON- brain - attic . -PRON- will have nothing but the tool which may help 
      -PRON- in do -PRON- work , but of these -PRON- have a large assortment , and 
      all in the most perfect order . -PRON- be a mistake to think that that 
      little room have elastic wall and can distend to any extent . depend 
      upon -PRON- there come a time when for every addition of knowledge -PRON- 
      forget something that -PRON- know before . -PRON- be of the high 
      importance , therefore , not to have useless fact elbow out the 
      useful one . " 

      " but the Solar System ! " -PRON- protest . 

      " what the deuce be -PRON- to -PRON- ? " -PRON- interrupt impatiently ; " -PRON- say 
      that -PRON- go round the sun . if -PRON- go round the moon -PRON- would not make 
      a pennyworth of difference to -PRON- or to -PRON- work . " 

      -PRON- be on the point of ask -PRON- what that work may be , but 
      something in -PRON- manner show -PRON- that the question would be an 
      unwelcome one . -PRON- ponder over -PRON- short conversation , however , and 
      endeavour to draw -PRON- deduction from -PRON- . -PRON- say that -PRON- would 
      acquire no knowledge which do not bear upon -PRON- object . therefore 
      all the knowledge which -PRON- possess be such as would be useful to 
      -PRON- . -PRON- enumerate in -PRON- own mind all the various point upon which -PRON- 
      have show -PRON- that -PRON- be exceptionally well - inform . -PRON- even take a 
      pencil and jot -PRON- down . -PRON- could not help smile at the document 
      when -PRON- have complete -PRON- . -PRON- run in this way-- 

      Sherlock Holmes -- -PRON- limit . 
     
      1 . knowledge of Literature.--Nil . 
      2 . Philosophy.--Nil . 
      3 . astronomy.--nil . 
      4 . Politics.--Feeble . 
      5 . botany.--variable . well up in belladonna , opium , and poison 
      generally . know nothing of practical gardening . 
      6 . Geology.--Practical , but limited . tell at a glance different 
      soil from each other . after walk have show -PRON- splash upon -PRON- 
      trouser , and tell -PRON- by -PRON- colour and consistence in what part of 
      London -PRON- have receive -PRON- . 
      7 . Chemistry.--Profound . 
      8 . anatomy.--accurate , but unsystematic . 
      9 . sensational Literature.--Immense . -PRON- appear to know every detail 
      of every horror perpetrate in the century . 
      10 . play the violin well . 
      11 . be an expert singlestick player , boxer , and swordsman . 
      12 . have a good practical knowledge of british law . 

      when -PRON- have get so far in -PRON- list -PRON- throw -PRON- into the fire in despair . 
      " if -PRON- can only find what the fellow be drive at by reconcile all 
      these accomplishment , and discover a calling which need -PRON- 
      all , " -PRON- say to -PRON- , " -PRON- may as well give up the attempt at once . " 

      -PRON- see that -PRON- have allude above to -PRON- power upon the violin . these 
      be very remarkable , but as eccentric as all -PRON- other 
      accomplishment . that -PRON- could play piece , and difficult piece , -PRON- 
      know well , because at -PRON- request -PRON- have play -PRON- some of 
      Mendelssohn 's Lieder , and other favourite . when leave to -PRON- , 
      however , -PRON- would seldom produce any music or attempt any recognize 
      air . lean back in -PRON- arm - chair of an evening , -PRON- would close -PRON- 
      eye and scrape carelessly at the fiddle which be throw across -PRON- 
      knee . sometimes the chord be sonorous and melancholy . occasionally 
      -PRON- be fantastic and cheerful . clearly -PRON- reflect the thought 
      which possess -PRON- , but whether the music aid those thought , or 
      whether the playing be simply the result of a whim or fancy be more 
      than -PRON- could determine . -PRON- may have rebel against these 
      exasperating solo have -PRON- not be that -PRON- usually terminate -PRON- by 
      play in quick succession a whole series of -PRON- favourite air as a 
      slight compensation for the trial upon -PRON- patience . 

      during the first week or so -PRON- have no caller , and -PRON- have begin to 
      think that -PRON- companion be as friendless a man as -PRON- be -PRON- . 
      presently , however , -PRON- find that -PRON- have many acquaintance , and those 
      in the most different class of society . there be one little sallow 
      rat - faced , dark - eyed fellow who be introduce to -PRON- as Mr. Lestrade , 
      and who come three or four time in a single week . one morning a 
      young girl call , fashionably dress , and stay for half an hour 
      or more . the same afternoon bring a grey - head , seedy visitor , 
      look like a Jew pedlar , who appear to -PRON- to be much excited , and 
      who be closely follow by a slipshod elderly woman . on another 
      occasion an old white - haired gentleman have an interview with -PRON- 
      companion ; and on another a railway porter in -PRON- velveteen uniform . 
      when any of these nondescript individual put in an appearance , 
      Sherlock Holmes use to beg for the use of the sitting - room , and -PRON- 
      would retire to -PRON- bed - room . -PRON- always apologize to -PRON- for put 
      -PRON- to this inconvenience . " -PRON- have to use this room as a place of 
      business , " -PRON- say , " and these people be -PRON- client . " again -PRON- have an 
      opportunity of ask -PRON- a point blank question , and again -PRON- 
      delicacy prevent -PRON- from force another man to confide in -PRON- . -PRON- 
      imagine at the time that -PRON- have some strong reason for not allude 
      to -PRON- , but -PRON- soon dispel the idea by come round to the subject 
      of -PRON- own accord . 

      -PRON- be upon the 4th of March , as -PRON- have good reason to remember , that 
      -PRON- rise somewhat earlier than usual , and find that Sherlock Holmes 
      have not yet finish -PRON- breakfast . the landlady have become so 
      accustomed to -PRON- late habit that -PRON- place have not be lay nor -PRON- 
      coffee prepare . with the unreasonable petulance of mankind -PRON- ring 
      the bell and give a curt intimation that -PRON- be ready . then -PRON- pick 
      up a magazine from the table and attempt to while away the time 
      with -PRON- , while -PRON- companion munch silently at -PRON- toast . one of the 
      article have a pencil mark at the heading , and -PRON- naturally begin to 
      run -PRON- eye through -PRON- . 

      -PRON- somewhat ambitious title be " the Book of Life , " and -PRON- attempt 
      to show how much an observant man may learn by an accurate and 
      systematic examination of all that come in -PRON- way . -PRON- strike -PRON- as 
      be a remarkable mixture of shrewdness and of absurdity . the 
      reasoning be close and intense , but the deduction appear to -PRON- to 
      be far - fetched and exaggerated . the writer claim by a momentary 
      expression , a twitch of a muscle or a glance of an eye , to fathom a 
      man 's inmost thought . Deceit , accord to -PRON- , be an impossibility 
      in the case of one train to observation and analysis . -PRON- 
      conclusion be as infallible as so many proposition of Euclid . so 
      startling would -PRON- result appear to the uninitiate that until -PRON- 
      learn the process by which -PRON- have arrive at -PRON- -PRON- may well 
      consider -PRON- as a necromancer . 

      " from a drop of water , " say the writer , " a logician could infer the 
      possibility of an Atlantic or a Niagara without have see or hear 
      of one or the other . so all life be a great chain , the nature of 
      which be know whenever -PRON- be show a single link of -PRON- . like all 
      other art , the Science of Deduction and Analysis be one which can 
      only be acquire by long and patient study nor be life long enough to 
      allow any mortal to attain the high possible perfection in -PRON- . 
      before turn to those moral and mental aspect of the matter which 
      present the great difficulty , let the enquirer begin by 
      master more elementary problem . let -PRON- , on meet a 
      fellow - mortal , learn at a glance to distinguish the history of the 
      man , and the trade or profession to which -PRON- belong . puerile as such 
      an exercise may seem , -PRON- sharpen the faculty of observation , and 
      teach one where to look and what to look for . by a man 's finger 
      nail , by -PRON- coat - sleeve , by -PRON- boot , by -PRON- trouser knee , by the 
      callosity of -PRON- forefinger and thumb , by -PRON- expression , by -PRON- 
      shirt cuff -- by each of these thing a man 's calling be plainly 
      reveal . that all united should fail to enlighten the competent 
      enquirer in any case be almost inconceivable . " 

      " what ineffable twaddle ! " -PRON- cry , slap the magazine down on the 
      table , " -PRON- never read such rubbish in -PRON- life . " 

      " what be -PRON- ? " ask Sherlock Holmes . 

      " why , this article , " -PRON- say , point at -PRON- with -PRON- egg spoon as -PRON- 
      sit down to -PRON- breakfast . " -PRON- see that -PRON- have read -PRON- since -PRON- have 
      mark -PRON- . -PRON- do not deny that -PRON- be smartly write . -PRON- irritate -PRON- 
      though . -PRON- be evidently the theory of some arm - chair lounger who 
      evolve all these neat little paradox in the seclusion of -PRON- own 
      study . -PRON- be not practical . -PRON- should like to see -PRON- clap down in 
      a third class carriage on the Underground , and ask to give the 
      trade of all -PRON- fellow - traveller . -PRON- would lay a thousand to one 
      against -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- would lose -PRON- money , " Sherlock Holmes remark calmly .   " as 
      for the article -PRON- write -PRON- -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- ! " 

      " yes , -PRON- have a turn both for observation and for deduction . the 
      theory which -PRON- have express there , and which appear to -PRON- to be 
      so chimerical be really extremely practical -- so practical that -PRON- 
      depend upon -PRON- for -PRON- bread and cheese . " 

      " and how ? " -PRON- ask involuntarily . 

      " well , -PRON- have a trade of -PRON- own . -PRON- suppose -PRON- be the only one in the 
      world . -PRON- be a consulting detective , if -PRON- can understand what that 
      be . here in London -PRON- have lot of Government detective and lot of 
      private one . when these fellow be at fault -PRON- come to -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      manage to put -PRON- on the right scent . -PRON- lie all the evidence 
      before -PRON- , and -PRON- be generally able , by the help of -PRON- knowledge of 
      the history of crime , to set -PRON- straight . there be a strong family 
      resemblance about misdeed , and if -PRON- have all the detail of a 
      thousand at -PRON- finger end , -PRON- be odd if -PRON- can not unravel the 
      thousand and first . Lestrade be a well - know detective . -PRON- get 
      -PRON- into a fog recently over a forgery case , and that be what 
      bring -PRON- here . " 

      " and these other people ? " 

      " -PRON- be mostly send on by private inquiry agency . -PRON- be all 
      people who be in trouble about something , and want a little 
      enlightening . -PRON- listen to -PRON- story , -PRON- listen to -PRON- comment , 
      and then -PRON- pocket -PRON- fee . " 

      " but do -PRON- mean to say , " -PRON- say , " that without leave -PRON- room -PRON- 
      can unravel some knot which other man can make nothing of , although 
      -PRON- have see every detail for -PRON- ? " 

      " quite so . -PRON- have a kind of intuition that way . now and again a case 
      turn up which be a little more complex . then -PRON- have to bustle about 
      and see thing with -PRON- own eye . -PRON- see -PRON- have a lot of special 
      knowledge which -PRON- apply to the problem , and which facilitate matter 
      wonderfully . those rule of deduction lay down in that article which 
      arouse -PRON- scorn , be invaluable to -PRON- in practical work . 
      observation with -PRON- be second nature . -PRON- appear to be surprised 
      when -PRON- tell -PRON- , on -PRON- first meeting , that -PRON- have come from 
      Afghanistan . " 

      " -PRON- be tell , no doubt . " 

      " nothing of the sort . -PRON- know -PRON- come from Afghanistan . from long 
      habit the train of thought run so swiftly through -PRON- mind , that -PRON- 
      arrive at the conclusion without be conscious of intermediate 
      step . there be such step , however . the train of reasoning run , 
      ' here be a gentleman of a medical type , but with the air of a 
      military man . clearly an army doctor , then . -PRON- have just come from the 
      tropic , for -PRON- face be dark , and that be not the natural tint of 
      -PRON- skin , for -PRON- wrist be fair . -PRON- have undergo hardship and 
      sickness , as -PRON- haggard face say clearly . -PRON- left arm have be 
      injure . -PRON- hold -PRON- in a stiff and unnatural manner . where in the 
      tropic could an english army doctor have see much hardship and get 
      -PRON- arm wound ? clearly in Afghanistan . ' the whole train of thought 
      do not occupy a second . -PRON- then remark that -PRON- come from 
      Afghanistan , and -PRON- be astonish . " 

      " -PRON- be simple enough as -PRON- explain -PRON- , " -PRON- say , smile . " -PRON- remind 
      -PRON- of Edgar Allen Poe 's Dupin . -PRON- have no idea that such individual 
      do exist outside of story . " 

      Sherlock Holmes rise and light -PRON- pipe . " no doubt -PRON- think that -PRON- 
      be compliment -PRON- in compare -PRON- to Dupin , " -PRON- observe . " now , in 
      -PRON- opinion , Dupin be a very inferior fellow . that trick of -PRON- of 
      break in on -PRON- friend ' thought with an apropos remark after a 
      quarter of an hour 's silence be really very showy and superficial . -PRON- 
      have some analytical genius , no doubt ; but -PRON- be by no mean such a 
      phenomenon as poe appear to imagine . " 

      " have -PRON- read Gaboriau 's work ? " -PRON- ask . " do Lecoq come up to 
      -PRON- idea of a detective ? " 

      Sherlock Holmes sniff sardonically . " Lecoq be a miserable 
      bungler , " -PRON- say , in an angry voice ; " -PRON- have only one thing to 
      recommend -PRON- , and that be -PRON- energy . that book make -PRON- positively 
      ill . the question be how to identify an unknown prisoner . -PRON- could 
      have do -PRON- in twenty - four hour . Lecoq take six month or so . -PRON- 
      may be make a text - book for detective to teach -PRON- what to 
      avoid . " 

      -PRON- feel rather indignant at have two character whom -PRON- have admire 
      treat in this cavalier style . -PRON- walk over to the window , and 
      stand look out into the busy street . " this fellow may be very 
      clever , " -PRON- say to -PRON- , " but -PRON- be certainly very conceited . " 

      " there be no crime and no criminal in these day , " -PRON- say , 
      querulously . " what be the use of have brain in -PRON- profession ? -PRON- 
      know well that -PRON- have -PRON- in -PRON- to make -PRON- name famous . no man live 
      or have ever live who have bring the same amount of study and of 
      natural talent to the detection of crime which -PRON- have do . and what 
      be the result ? there be no crime to detect , or , at most , some 
      bungle villany with a motive so transparent that even a Scotland 
      yard official can see through -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- be still annoy at -PRON- bumptious style of conversation . -PRON- think 
      -PRON- good to change the topic . 

      " -PRON- wonder what that fellow be look for ? " -PRON- ask , point to a 
      stalwart , plainly - dress individual who be walk slowly down the 
      other side of the street , look anxiously at the number . -PRON- have a 
      large blue envelope in -PRON- hand , and be evidently the bearer of a 
      message . 

      " -PRON- mean the retire sergeant of Marines , " say Sherlock Holmes . 

      " brag and bounce ! " think -PRON- to -PRON- . " -PRON- know that -PRON- can not 
      verify -PRON- guess . " 

      the thought have hardly pass through -PRON- mind when the man whom -PRON- 
      be watch catch sight of the number on -PRON- door , and run rapidly 
      across the roadway . -PRON- hear a loud knock , a deep voice below , and 
      heavy step ascend the stair . 

      " for Mr. Sherlock Holmes , " -PRON- say , step into the room and 
      hand -PRON- friend the letter . 

      here be an opportunity of take the conceit out of -PRON- . -PRON- little 
      think of this when -PRON- make that random shot . " May -PRON- ask , -PRON- lad , " -PRON- 
      say , in the bland voice , " what -PRON- trade may be ? " 

      " Commissionaire , sir , " -PRON- say , gruffly . " uniform away for repair . " 

      " and -PRON- be ? " -PRON- ask , with a slightly malicious glance at -PRON- 
      companion . 

      " a sergeant , sir , Royal Marine Light Infantry , sir . no answer ? right , 
      sir . " 

      -PRON- click -PRON- heel together , raise -PRON- hand in a salute , and be 
      go . 





           CHAPTER III 
           the Lauriston Garden Mystery 


      -PRON- confes that -PRON- be considerably startle by this fresh proof of the 
      practical nature of -PRON- companion 's theory . -PRON- respect for -PRON- 
      power of analysis increase wondrously . there still remain some 
      lurk suspicion in -PRON- mind , however , that the whole thing be a 
      pre - arranged episode , intend to dazzle -PRON- , though what earthly 
      object -PRON- could have in take -PRON- in be past -PRON- comprehension . when 
      -PRON- look at -PRON- -PRON- have finish read the note , and -PRON- eye have 
      assume the vacant , lack - lustre expression which show mental 
      abstraction . 

      " how in the world do -PRON- deduce that ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " deduce what ? " say -PRON- , petulantly . 

      " why , that -PRON- be a retired sergeant of Marines . " 

      " -PRON- have no time for trifle , " -PRON- answer , brusquely ; then with a 
      smile , " excuse -PRON- rudeness . -PRON- break the thread of -PRON- thought ; but 
      perhaps -PRON- be as well . so -PRON- actually be not able to see that that 
      man be a sergeant of Marines ? " 

      " no , indeed . " 

      " -PRON- be easy to know -PRON- than to explain why -PRON- know -PRON- . if -PRON- be 
      ask to prove that two and two make four , -PRON- may find some 
      difficulty , and yet -PRON- be quite sure of the fact . even across the 
      street -PRON- could see a great blue anchor tattoo on the back of the 
      fellow 's hand . that smack of the sea . -PRON- have a military carriage , 
      however , and regulation side whisker . there -PRON- have the marine . -PRON- 
      be a man with some amount of self - importance and a certain air of 
      command . -PRON- must have observe the way in which -PRON- hold -PRON- head and 
      swing -PRON- cane . a steady , respectable , middle - aged man , too , on the 
      face of -PRON- -- all fact which lead -PRON- to believe that -PRON- have be a 
      sergeant . " 

      " wonderful ! " -PRON- ejaculate . 

      " Commonplace , " say Holmes , though -PRON- think from -PRON- expression that 
      -PRON- be pleased at -PRON- evident surprise and admiration . " -PRON- say just 
      now that there be no criminal . -PRON- appear that -PRON- be wrong -- look at 
      this ! " -PRON- throw -PRON- over the note which the commissionaire have 
      bring . 

      " why , " -PRON- cry , as -PRON- cast -PRON- eye over -PRON- , " this be terrible ! " 

      " -PRON- do seem to be a little out of the common , " -PRON- remark , calmly . 
      " Would -PRON- mind read -PRON- to -PRON- aloud ? " 

      this be the letter which -PRON- read to him-- 

      " -PRON- dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes : 
      " there have be a bad business during the night at 3 , Lauriston 
      Gardens , off the Brixton Road . -PRON- man on the beat see a light there 
      about two in the morning , and as the house be an empty one , 
      suspect that something be amiss . -PRON- find the door open , and in 
      the front room , which be bare of furniture , discover the body of a 
      gentleman , well dressed , and have card in -PRON- pocket bear the 
      name of ' Enoch J. Drebber , Cleveland , Ohio , U.S.A. ' there have be no 
      robbery , nor be there any evidence as to how the man meet -PRON- death . 
      there be mark of blood in the room , but there be no wound upon -PRON- 
      person . -PRON- be at a loss as to how -PRON- come into the empty house ; 
      indeed , the whole affair be a puzzler . if -PRON- can come round to the 
      house any time before twelve , -PRON- will find -PRON- there . -PRON- have leave 
      everything in statu quo until -PRON- hear from -PRON- . if -PRON- be unable to 
      come -PRON- shall give -PRON- full detail , and would esteem -PRON- a great 
      kindness if -PRON- would favour -PRON- with -PRON- opinion . 
      " yours faithfully , 
      " Tobias Gregson . " 

      " Gregson be the smart of the Scotland Yarders , " -PRON- friend 
      remark ; " -PRON- and Lestrade be the pick of a bad lot . -PRON- be both 
      quick and energetic , but conventional -- shockingly so . -PRON- have -PRON- 
      knife into one another , too . -PRON- be as jealous as a pair of 
      professional beauty . there will be some fun over this case if -PRON- 
      be both put upon the scent . " 

      -PRON- be amazed at the calm way in which -PRON- ripple on . " surely there be 
      not a moment to be lose , " -PRON- cry , " shall -PRON- go and order -PRON- a cab ? " 

      " -PRON- be not sure about whether -PRON- shall go . -PRON- be the most incurably lazy 
      devil that ever stand in shoe leather -- that is , when the fit be on 
      -PRON- , for -PRON- can be spry enough at time . " 

      " why , -PRON- be just such a chance as -PRON- have be long for . " 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , what do -PRON- matter to -PRON- . suppose -PRON- unravel the 
      whole matter , -PRON- may be sure that Gregson , Lestrade , and Co. will 
      pocket all the credit . that come of be an unofficial personage . " 

      " but -PRON- beg -PRON- to help -PRON- . " 

      " yes . -PRON- know that -PRON- be -PRON- superior , and acknowledge -PRON- to -PRON- ; but 
      -PRON- would cut -PRON- tongue out before -PRON- would own -PRON- to any third 
      person . however , -PRON- may as well go and have a look . -PRON- shall work -PRON- 
      out on -PRON- own hook . -PRON- may have a laugh at -PRON- if -PRON- have nothing 
      else . come on ! " 

      -PRON- hustle on -PRON- overcoat , and bustle about in a way that show 
      that an energetic fit have supersede the apathetic one . 

      " get -PRON- hat , " -PRON- say . 

      " -PRON- wish -PRON- to come ? " 

      " yes , if -PRON- have nothing well to do . " a minute later -PRON- be both 
      in a hansom , drive furiously for the Brixton Road . 

      -PRON- be a foggy , cloudy morning , and a dun - colour veil hang over the 
      house - top , look like the reflection of the mud - colour street 
      beneath . -PRON- companion be in the good of spirit , and prattle away 
      about Cremona fiddle , and the difference between a Stradivarius and 
      an Amati . as for -PRON- , -PRON- be silent , for the dull weather and the 
      melancholy business upon which -PRON- be engage , depress -PRON- spirit . 

      " -PRON- do not seem to give much thought to the matter in hand , " -PRON- say 
      at last , interrupt Holmes ' musical disquisition . 

      " no data yet , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- be a capital mistake to theorize 
      before -PRON- have all the evidence . -PRON- bias the judgment . " 

      " -PRON- will have -PRON- datum soon , " -PRON- remark , point with -PRON- finger ; 
      " this be the Brixton Road , and that be the house , if -PRON- be not very 
      much mistaken . " 

      " so -PRON- be . stop , driver , stop ! " -PRON- be still a hundred yard or so 
      from -PRON- , but -PRON- insist upon -PRON- alighting , and -PRON- finish -PRON- 
      journey upon foot . 

      number 3 , Lauriston Gardens wear an ill - omen and minatory look . -PRON- 
      be one of four which stand back some little way from the street , two 
      be occupy and two empty . the latter look out with three tier 
      of vacant melancholy window , which be blank and dreary , save that 
      here and there a " to let " card have develop like a cataract upon the 
      blear pane . a small garden sprinkle over with a scatter 
      eruption of sickly plant separate each of these house from the 
      street , and be traverse by a narrow pathway , yellowish in colour , 
      and consist apparently of a mixture of clay and of gravel . the 
      whole place be very sloppy from the rain which have fall through 
      the night . the garden be bound by a three - foot brick wall with a 
      fringe of wood rail upon the top , and against this wall be lean 
      a stalwart police constable , surround by a small knot of loafer , 
      who crane -PRON- neck and strain -PRON- eye in the vain hope of 
      catch some glimpse of the proceeding within . 

      -PRON- have imagine that Sherlock Holmes would at once have hurry into 
      the house and plunge into a study of the mystery . nothing appear 
      to be further from -PRON- intention . with an air of nonchalance which , 
      under the circumstance , seem to -PRON- to border upon affectation , -PRON- 
      lounge up and down the pavement , and gaze vacantly at the ground , 
      the sky , the opposite house and the line of railing . have 
      finish -PRON- scrutiny , -PRON- proceed slowly down the path , or rather 
      down the fringe of grass which flank the path , keep -PRON- eye 
      rivet upon the ground . twice -PRON- stop , and once -PRON- see -PRON- smile , 
      and hear -PRON- utter an exclamation of satisfaction . there be many 
      mark of footstep upon the wet clayey soil , but since the police have 
      be come and go over -PRON- , -PRON- be unable to see how -PRON- companion 
      could hope to learn anything from -PRON- . still -PRON- have have such 
      extraordinary evidence of the quickness of -PRON- perceptive faculty , 
      that -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- could see a great deal which be hide 
      from -PRON- . 

      at the door of the house -PRON- be meet by a tall , white - faced , 
      flaxen - haired man , with a notebook in -PRON- hand , who rush forward 
      and wrung -PRON- companion 's hand with effusion . " -PRON- be indeed kind of 
      -PRON- to come , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- have have everything leave untouched . " 

      " except that ! " -PRON- friend answer , point at the pathway . " if a 
      herd of buffalo have pass along there could not be a great mess . 
      no doubt , however , -PRON- have draw -PRON- own conclusion , Gregson , 
      before -PRON- permit this . " 

      " -PRON- have have so much to do inside the house , " the detective say 
      evasively . " -PRON- colleague , Mr. Lestrade , be here . -PRON- have rely upon 
      -PRON- to look after this . " 

      Holmes glance at -PRON- and raise -PRON- eyebrow sardonically . " with two 
      such man as -PRON- and Lestrade upon the ground , there will not be 
      much for a third party to find out , " -PRON- say . 

      Gregson rub -PRON- hand in a self - satisfied way . " -PRON- think -PRON- have 
      do all that can be do , " -PRON- answer ; " -PRON- be a queer case though , 
      and -PRON- know -PRON- taste for such thing . " 

      " -PRON- do not come here in a cab ? " ask Sherlock Holmes . 

      " no , sir . " 

      " nor Lestrade ? " 

      " no , sir . " 

      " then let -PRON- go and look at the room . " with which inconsequent remark 
      -PRON- stride on into the house , follow by Gregson , whose feature 
      express -PRON- astonishment . 

      a short passage , bare plank and dusty , lead to the kitchen and 
      office . two door open out of -PRON- to the left and to the right . one 
      of these have obviously be close for many week . the other belong 
      to the dining - room , which be the apartment in which the mysterious 
      affair have occur . Holmes walk in , and -PRON- follow -PRON- with that 
      subdue feeling at -PRON- heart which the presence of death inspire . 

      -PRON- be a large square room , look all the large from the absence 
      of all furniture . a vulgar flare paper adorn the wall , but -PRON- 
      be blotch in place with mildew , and here and there great strip 
      have become detach and hang down , expose the yellow plaster 
      beneath . opposite the door be a showy fireplace , surmount by a 
      mantelpiece of imitation white marble . on one corner of this be 
      stick the stump of a red wax candle . the solitary window be so dirty 
      that the light be hazy and uncertain , give a dull grey tinge to 
      everything , which be intensify by the thick layer of dust which 
      coat the whole apartment . 

      all these detail -PRON- observe afterwards . at present -PRON- attention be 
      centre upon the single grim motionless figure which lie stretch 
      upon the board , with vacant sightless eye stare up at the 
      discolour ceiling . -PRON- be that of a man about forty - three or 
      forty - four year of age , middle - sized , broad shoulder , with crisp 
      curl black hair , and a short stubbly beard . -PRON- be dress in a 
      heavy broadcloth frock coat and waistcoat , with light - coloured 
      trouser , and immaculate collar and cuff . a top hat , well brush 
      and trim , be place upon the floor beside -PRON- . -PRON- hand be 
      clench and -PRON- arm throw abroad , while -PRON- low limb be 
      interlock as though -PRON- death struggle have be a grievous one . on 
      -PRON- rigid face there stand an expression of horror , and as -PRON- seem 
      to -PRON- , of hatred , such as -PRON- have never see upon human feature . this 
      malignant and terrible contortion , combine with the low forehead , 
      blunt nose , and prognathous jaw give the dead man a singularly 
      simious and ape - like appearance , which be increase by -PRON- writhing , 
      unnatural posture . -PRON- have see death in many form , but never have -PRON- 
      appear to -PRON- in a more fearsome aspect than in that dark grimy 
      apartment , which look out upon one of the main artery of suburban 
      London . 

      lestrade , lean and ferret - like as ever , be stand by the doorway , 
      and greet -PRON- companion and -PRON- . 

      " this case will make a stir , sir , " -PRON- remark . " -PRON- beat anything -PRON- 
      have see , and -PRON- be no chicken . " 

      " there be no clue ? " say Gregson . 

      " none at all , " chime in Lestrade . 

      Sherlock Holmes approach the body , and , kneel down , examine -PRON- 
      intently . " -PRON- be sure that there be no wound ? " -PRON- ask , point 
      to numerous gout and splash of blood which lie all round . 

      " positive ! " cry both detective . 

      " then , of course , this blood belong to a second 
      individual -- presumably the murderer , if murder have be commit . -PRON- 
      remind -PRON- of the circumstance attendant on the death of Van Jansen , 
      in Utrecht , in the year ' 34 . do -PRON- remember the case , Gregson ? " 

      " no , sir . " 

      " read -PRON- up -- -PRON- really should . there be nothing new under the sun . 
      -PRON- have all be do before . " 

      as -PRON- speak , -PRON- nimble finger be fly here , there , and 
      everywhere , feel , press , unbuttoning , examine , while -PRON- eye 
      wear the same far - away expression which -PRON- have already remark upon . 
      so swiftly be the examination make , that one would hardly have 
      guess the minuteness with which -PRON- be conduct . finally , -PRON- 
      sniff the dead man 's lip , and then glance at the sol of -PRON- 
      patent leather boot . 

      " -PRON- have not be move at all ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " no more than be necessary for the purpose of -PRON- examination . " 

      " -PRON- can take -PRON- to the mortuary now , " -PRON- say . " there be nothing 
      more to be learn . " 

      Gregson have a stretcher and four man at hand . at -PRON- call -PRON- 
      enter the room , and the stranger be lift and carry out . as 
      -PRON- raise -PRON- , a ring tinkle down and roll across the floor . 
      Lestrade grab -PRON- up and stare at -PRON- with mystified eye . 

      " there be be a woman here , " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- be a woman 's wedding - ring . " 

      -PRON- hold -PRON- out , as -PRON- speak , upon the palm of -PRON- hand . -PRON- all 
      gather round -PRON- and gaze at -PRON- . there could be no doubt that that 
      circlet of plain gold have once adorn the finger of a bride . 

      " this complicate matter , " say Gregson . " Heaven know , -PRON- be 
      complicate enough before . " 

      " -PRON- be sure -PRON- do not simplify -PRON- ? " observe Holmes . " there be 
      nothing to be learn by stare at -PRON- . what do -PRON- find in -PRON- 
      pocket ? " 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- all here , " say Gregson , point to a litter of object 
      upon one of the bottom step of the stair . " a gold watch , no . 97163 , 
      by Barraud , of London . Gold Albert chain , very heavy and solid . gold 
      ring , with masonic device . gold pin -- bull - dog 's head , with ruby as 
      eye . russian leather card - case , with card of Enoch J. Drebber of 
      Cleveland , correspond with the E. J. D. upon the linen . no purse , 
      but loose money to the extent of seven pound thirteen . pocket 
      edition of Boccaccio 's ' Decameron , ' with name of Joseph Stangerson 
      upon the fly - leaf . two letter -- one address to E. J. Drebber and 
      one to Joseph Stangerson . " 

      " at what address ? " 

      " American Exchange , Strand -- to be leave till call for . -PRON- be both 
      from the Guion Steamship Company , and refer to the sailing of -PRON- 
      boat from Liverpool . -PRON- be clear that this unfortunate man be about 
      to return to New York . " 

      " have -PRON- make any inquiry as to this man , Stangerson ? " 

      " -PRON- do -PRON- at once , sir , " say Gregson . " -PRON- have have advertisement 
      send to all the newspaper , and one of -PRON- man have go to the 
      American Exchange , but -PRON- have not return yet . " 

      " have -PRON- send to Cleveland ? " 

      " -PRON- telegraph this morning . " 

      " how do -PRON- word -PRON- inquiry ? " 

      " -PRON- simply detail the circumstance , and say that -PRON- should be 
      glad of any information which could help -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- do not ask for particular on any point which appear to -PRON- 
      to be crucial ? " 

      " -PRON- ask about Stangerson . " 

      " nothing else ? be there no circumstance on which this whole case 
      appear to hinge ? Will -PRON- not telegraph again ? " 

      " -PRON- have say all -PRON- have to say , " say Gregson , in an offend voice . 

      Sherlock Holmes chuckle to -PRON- , and appear to be about to make 
      some remark , when Lestrade , who have be in the front room while -PRON- 
      be hold this conversation in the hall , reappear upon the 
      scene , rub -PRON- hand in a pompous and self - satisfied manner . 

      " Mr. Gregson , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- have just make a discovery of the high 
      importance , and one which would have be overlook have -PRON- not make a 
      careful examination of the wall . " 

      the little man 's eye sparkle as -PRON- speak , and -PRON- be evidently in a 
      state of suppress exultation at have score a point against -PRON- 
      colleague . 

      " come here , " -PRON- say , bustle back into the room , the atmosphere of 
      which feel clear since the removal of -PRON- ghastly inmate . " now , 
      stand there ! " 

      -PRON- strike a match on -PRON- boot and hold -PRON- up against the wall . 

      " look at that ! " -PRON- say , triumphantly . 

      -PRON- have remark that the paper have fall away in part . in this 
      particular corner of the room a large piece have peel off , leave a 
      yellow square of coarse plastering . across this bare space there be 
      scrawl in blood - red letter a single word-- 

                                      RACHE . 

      " what do -PRON- think of that ? " cry the detective , with the air of a 
      showman exhibit -PRON- show . " this be overlook because -PRON- be in 
      the dark corner of the room , and no one thought of look there . 
      the murderer have write -PRON- with -PRON- or -PRON- own blood . see this smear 
      where -PRON- have trickle down the wall ! that dispose of the idea of 
      suicide anyhow . why be that corner choose to write -PRON- on ? -PRON- will 
      tell -PRON- . see that candle on the mantelpiece . -PRON- be light at the time , 
      and if -PRON- be light this corner would be the bright instead of the 
      dark portion of the wall . " 

      " and what do -PRON- mean now that -PRON- have find -PRON- ? " ask Gregson in 
      a depreciatory voice . 

      " mean ? why , -PRON- mean that the writer be go to put the female name 
      Rachel , but be disturb before -PRON- or -PRON- have time to finish . -PRON- 
      mark -PRON- word , when this case come to be clear up -PRON- will find 
      that a woman name Rachel have something to do with -PRON- . -PRON- be all very 
      well for -PRON- to laugh , Mr. Sherlock Holmes . -PRON- may be very smart and 
      clever , but the old hound be the good , when all be say and do . " 

      " -PRON- really beg -PRON- pardon ! " say -PRON- companion , who have ruffle the 
      little man 's temper by burst into an explosion of laughter . " -PRON- 
      certainly have the credit of be the first of -PRON- to find this out , 
      and , as -PRON- say , -PRON- bear every mark of have be write by the 
      other participant in last night 's mystery . -PRON- have not have time to 
      examine this room yet , but with -PRON- permission -PRON- shall do so now . " 

      as -PRON- speak , -PRON- whip a tape measure and a large round magnify 
      glass from -PRON- pocket . with these two implement -PRON- trot 
      noiselessly about the room , sometimes stop , occasionally 
      kneel , and once lie flat upon -PRON- face . so engross be -PRON- with 
      -PRON- occupation that -PRON- appear to have forget -PRON- presence , for 
      -PRON- chatter away to -PRON- under -PRON- breath the whole time , keep 
      up a running fire of exclamation , groans , whistles , and little cry 
      suggestive of encouragement and of hope . as -PRON- watch -PRON- -PRON- be 
      irresistibly remind of a pure - blooded well - train foxhound as -PRON- 
      dash backwards and forwards through the covert , whine in -PRON- 
      eagerness , until -PRON- come across the lost scent . for twenty minute 
      or more -PRON- continue -PRON- research , measure with the most exact 
      care the distance between mark which be entirely invisible to -PRON- , 
      and occasionally apply -PRON- tape to the wall in an equally 
      incomprehensible manner . in one place -PRON- gather up very carefully a 
      little pile of grey dust from the floor , and pack -PRON- away in an 
      envelope . finally , -PRON- examine with -PRON- glass the word upon the wall , 
      go over every letter of -PRON- with the most minute exactness . this 
      do , -PRON- appear to be satisfied , for -PRON- replace -PRON- tape and -PRON- 
      glass in -PRON- pocket . 

      " -PRON- say that genius be an infinite capacity for take pain , " -PRON- 
      remark with a smile . " -PRON- be a very bad definition , but -PRON- do apply 
      to detective work . " 

      Gregson and Lestrade have watch the manoeuvre of -PRON- amateur 
      companion with considerable curiosity and some contempt . -PRON- 
      evidently fail to appreciate the fact , which -PRON- have begin to 
      realize , that Sherlock Holmes ' small action be all direct 
      towards some definite and practical end . 

      " what do -PRON- think of -PRON- , sir ? " -PRON- both ask . 

      " -PRON- would be rob -PRON- of the credit of the case if -PRON- be to 
      presume to help -PRON- , " remark -PRON- friend . " -PRON- be do so well now 
      that -PRON- would be a pity for anyone to interfere . " there be a world 
      of sarcasm in -PRON- voice as -PRON- speak . " if -PRON- will let -PRON- know how 
      -PRON- investigation go , " -PRON- continue , " -PRON- shall be happy to give -PRON- 
      any help -PRON- can . in the meantime -PRON- should like to speak to the 
      constable who find the body . Can -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- name and address ? " 

      Lestrade glance at -PRON- note - book . " John Rance , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- be off 
      duty now . -PRON- will find -PRON- at 46 , Audley Court , Kennington Park 
      Gate . " 

      Holmes take a note of the address . 

      " come along , Doctor , " -PRON- say ; " -PRON- shall go and look -PRON- up . -PRON- will 
      tell -PRON- one thing which may help -PRON- in the case , " -PRON- continue , 
      turn to the two detective . " there have be murder do , and the 
      murderer be a man . -PRON- be more than six foot high , be in the prime 
      of life , have small foot for -PRON- height , wear coarse , square - toe 
      boot and smoke a Trichinopoly cigar . -PRON- come here with -PRON- victim 
      in a four - wheeled cab , which be draw by a horse with three old 
      shoe and one new one on -PRON- off fore leg . in all probability the 
      murderer have a florid face , and the finger - nail of -PRON- right hand 
      be remarkably long . these be only a few indication , but -PRON- may 
      assist -PRON- . " 

      Lestrade and Gregson glance at each other with an incredulous smile . 

      " if this man be murder , how be -PRON- do ? " ask the former . 

      " Poison , " say Sherlock Holmes curtly , and strode off . " one other 
      thing , Lestrade , " -PRON- add , turn round at the door : " ' Rache , ' be 
      the german for ' revenge ; ' so do not lose -PRON- time look for Miss 
      Rachel . " 

      with which Parthian shoot -PRON- walk away , leave the two rival 
      open - mouthed behind -PRON- . 





           CHAPTER IV 
           what John Rance have to tell 


      -PRON- be one o'clock when -PRON- leave no . 3 , Lauriston Gardens . Sherlock 
      Holmes lead -PRON- to the near telegraph office , whence -PRON- dispatch a 
      long telegram . -PRON- then hail a cab , and order the driver to take 
      -PRON- to the address give -PRON- by Lestrade . 

      " there be nothing like first hand evidence , " -PRON- remark ; " as a 
      matter of fact , -PRON- mind be entirely make up upon the case , but still 
      -PRON- may as well learn all that be to be learn . " 

      " -PRON- amaze -PRON- , Holmes , " say I. " surely -PRON- be not as sure as -PRON- 
      pretend to be of all those particular which -PRON- give . " 

      " there be no room for a mistake , " -PRON- answer . " the very first thing 
      which -PRON- observe on arrive there be that a cab have make two rut 
      with -PRON- wheel close to the curb . now , up to last night , -PRON- have have 
      no rain for a week , so that those wheel which leave such a deep 
      impression must have be there during the night . there be the 
      mark of the horse 's hoofs , too , the outline of one of which be far 
      more clearly cut than that of the other three , show that that be 
      a new shoe . since the cab be there after the rain begin , and be not 
      there at any time during the morning -- -PRON- have Gregson 's word for 
      that -- -PRON- follow that -PRON- must have be there during the night , and , 
      therefore , that -PRON- bring those two individual to the house . " 

      " that seem simple enough , " say -PRON- ; " but how about the other man 's 
      height ? " 

      " why , the height of a man , in nine case out of ten , can be tell from 
      the length of -PRON- stride . -PRON- be a simple calculation enough , though 
      there be no use -PRON- boring -PRON- with figure . -PRON- have this fellow 's 
      stride both on the clay outside and on the dust within . then -PRON- have a 
      way of check -PRON- calculation . when a man write on a wall , -PRON- 
      instinct lead -PRON- to write about the level of -PRON- own eye . now that 
      writing be just over six foot from the ground . -PRON- be child 's play . " 

      " and -PRON- age ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " well , if a man can stride four and a - half foot without the small 
      effort , -PRON- can not be quite in the sere and yellow . that be the 
      breadth of a puddle on the garden walk which -PRON- have evidently walk 
      across . patent - leather boot have go round , and Square - toes have 
      hop over . there be no mystery about -PRON- at all . -PRON- be simply 
      apply to ordinary life a few of those precept of observation and 
      deduction which -PRON- advocate in that article . be there anything else 
      that puzzle -PRON- ? " 

      " the finger nail and the Trichinopoly , " -PRON- suggest . 

      " the writing on the wall be do with a man 's forefinger dip in 
      blood . -PRON- glass allow -PRON- to observe that the plaster be slightly 
      scratch in do -PRON- , which would not have be the case if the 
      man 's nail have be trim . -PRON- gather up some scatter ash from 
      the floor . -PRON- be dark in colour and flakey -- such an ash as be only 
      make by a Trichinopoly . -PRON- have make a special study of cigar 
      ashe -- in fact , -PRON- have write a monograph upon the subject . -PRON- 
      flatter -PRON- that -PRON- can distinguish at a glance the ash of any 
      know brand , either of cigar or of tobacco . -PRON- be just in such 
      detail that the skilled detective differ from the Gregson and 
      lestrade type . " 

      " and the florid face ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " ah , that be a more daring shot , though -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- be 
      right . -PRON- must not ask -PRON- that at the present state of the affair . " 

      -PRON- pass -PRON- hand over -PRON- brow . " -PRON- head be in a whirl , " -PRON- remark ; 
      " the more one think of -PRON- the more mysterious -PRON- grow . how come 
      these two man -- if there be two man -- into an empty house ? what have 
      become of the cabman who drive -PRON- ? how could one man compel another 
      to take poison ? where do the blood come from ? what be the object of 
      the murderer , since robbery have no part in -PRON- ? how come the woman 's 
      re there ? above all , why should the second man write up the german 
      word RACHE before decamp ? -PRON- confess that -PRON- can not see any possible 
      way of reconcile all these fact . " 

      -PRON- companion smile approvingly . 

      " -PRON- sum up the difficulty of the situation succinctly and well , " 
      -PRON- say . " there be much that be still obscure , though -PRON- have quite 
      make up -PRON- mind on the main fact . as to poor Lestrade 's discovery -PRON- 
      be simply a blind intend to put the police upon a wrong track , by 
      suggest socialism and secret society . -PRON- be not do by a 
      german . the A , if -PRON- notice , be print somewhat after the german 
      fashion . now , a real german invariably print in the latin character , 
      so that -PRON- may safely say that this be not write by one , but by a 
      clumsy imitator who overdo -PRON- part . -PRON- be simply a ruse to divert 
      inquiry into a wrong channel . -PRON- be not go to tell -PRON- much more of 
      the case , Doctor . -PRON- know a conjuror get no credit when once -PRON- have 
      explain -PRON- trick , and if -PRON- show -PRON- too much of -PRON- method of 
      work , -PRON- will come to the conclusion that -PRON- be a very ordinary 
      individual after all . " 

      " -PRON- shall never do that , " -PRON- answer ; " -PRON- have bring detection as 
      near an exact science as -PRON- ever will be bring in this world . " 

      -PRON- companion flush up with pleasure at -PRON- word , and the earnest 
      way in which -PRON- utter -PRON- . -PRON- have already observe that -PRON- be as 
      sensitive to flattery on the score of -PRON- art as any girl could be of 
      -PRON- beauty . 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- one other thing , " -PRON- say . " patent - leather and 
      Square - toes come in the same cab , and -PRON- walk down the pathway 
      together as friendly as possible -- arm - in - arm , in all probability . 
      when -PRON- get inside -PRON- walk up and down the room -- or rather , 
      patent - leather stand still while Square - toe walk up and down . -PRON- 
      could read all that in the dust ; and -PRON- could read that as -PRON- walk 
      -PRON- grow more and more excited . that be show by the increase length 
      of -PRON- stride . -PRON- be talk all the while , and work -PRON- up , 
      no doubt , into a fury . then the tragedy occur . -PRON- have tell -PRON- all -PRON- 
      know -PRON- now , for the rest be mere surmise and conjecture . -PRON- have 
      a good working basis , however , on which to start . -PRON- must hurry up , 
      for -PRON- want to go to Halle 's concert to hear Norman Neruda this 
      afternoon . " 

      this conversation have occur while -PRON- cab have be thread -PRON- 
      way through a long succession of dingy street and dreary by - way . in 
      the dingy and dreariest of -PRON- -PRON- driver suddenly come to a 
      stand . " that be Audley Court in there , " -PRON- say , point to a narrow 
      slit in the line of dead - coloured brick . " -PRON- will find -PRON- here when 
      -PRON- come back . " 

      Audley Court be not an attractive locality . the narrow passage lead 
      -PRON- into a quadrangle pave with flag and line by sordid dwelling . 
      -PRON- pick -PRON- way among group of dirty child , and through line 
      of discolour linen , until -PRON- come to Number 46 , the door of which 
      be decorate with a small slip of brass on which the name Rance be 
      engrave . on enquiry -PRON- find that the constable be in bed , and -PRON- 
      be show into a little front parlour to await -PRON- coming . 

      -PRON- appear presently , look a little irritable at be disturb 
      in -PRON- slumber . " -PRON- make -PRON- report at the office , " -PRON- say . 

      Holmes take a half - sovereign from -PRON- pocket and play with -PRON- 
      pensively . " -PRON- think that -PRON- should like to hear -PRON- all from -PRON- 
      own lip , " -PRON- say . 

      " -PRON- shall be most happy to tell -PRON- anything -PRON- can , " the constable 
      answer with -PRON- eye upon the little golden disk . 

      " just let -PRON- hear -PRON- all in -PRON- own way as -PRON- occur . " 

      Rance sit down on the horsehair sofa , and knit -PRON- brow as though 
      determine not to omit anything in -PRON- narrative . 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- ye from the beginning , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- time be from ten 
      at night to six in the morning . at eleven there be a fight at the 
      ' White Hart ' ; but bar that all be quiet enough on the beat . at one 
      o'clock -PRON- begin to rain , and -PRON- meet Harry Murcher -- -PRON- who have the 
      Holland Grove beat -- and -PRON- stand together at the corner of Henrietta 
      Street a - talkin ' . presently -- maybe about two or a little after -- -PRON- 
      think -PRON- would take a look round and see that all be right down the 
      Brixton Road . -PRON- be precious dirty and lonely . not a soul do -PRON- meet 
      all the way down , though a cab or two go past -PRON- . -PRON- be a strollin ' 
      down , thinkin ' between -PRON- how uncommon handy a four of gin hot 
      would be , when suddenly the glint of a light catch -PRON- eye in the 
      window of that same house . now , -PRON- know that -PRON- two house in 
      Lauriston Gardens be empty on account of -PRON- that own -PRON- who 
      will not have the drain seed to , though the very last tenant what live 
      in one of -PRON- die o ' typhoid fever . -PRON- be knock all in a heap 
      therefore at see a light in the window , and -PRON- suspect as 
      something be wrong . when -PRON- get to the door-- " 

      " -PRON- stop , and then walk back to the garden gate , " -PRON- companion 
      interrupt . " what do -PRON- do that for ? " 

      Rance give a violent jump , and stare at Sherlock Holmes with the 
      utmost amazement upon -PRON- feature . 

      " why , that be true , sir , " -PRON- say ; " though how -PRON- come to know -PRON- , 
      Heaven only know . ye see , when -PRON- get up to the door -PRON- be so still 
      and so lonesome , that -PRON- think -PRON- would be none the bad for some one 
      with -PRON- . -PRON- be not afeare of anything on this side o ' the grave ; but -PRON- 
      think that maybe -PRON- be -PRON- that die o ' the typhoid inspect the 
      drain what kill -PRON- . the thought give -PRON- a kind o ' turn , and -PRON- 
      walk back to the gate to see if -PRON- could see Murcher 's lantern , but 
      there be not no sign of -PRON- nor of anyone else . " 

      " there be no one in the street ? " 

      " not a livin ' soul , sir , nor as much as a dog . then -PRON- pull -PRON- 
      together and go back and push the door open . all be quiet 
      inside , so -PRON- go into the room where the light be a - burnin ' . there 
      be a candle flickerin ' on the mantelpiece -- a red wax one -- and by -PRON- 
      light -PRON- saw-- " 

      " yes , -PRON- know all that -PRON- see . -PRON- walk round the room several 
      time , and -PRON- knelt down by the body , and then -PRON- walk through 
      and try the kitchen door , and then-- " 

      John Rance spring to -PRON- foot with a frightened face and suspicion in 
      -PRON- eye . " where be -PRON- hide to see all that ? " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- seem to 
      -PRON- that -PRON- know a deal more than -PRON- should . " 

      Holmes laugh and throw -PRON- card across the table to the constable . 
      " do not get arrest -PRON- for the murder , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- be one of the 
      hound and not the wolf ; Mr. Gregson or Mr. Lestrade will answer for 
      that . go on , though . what do -PRON- do next ? " 

      Rance resume -PRON- seat , without however lose -PRON- mystified 
      expression . " -PRON- go back to the gate and sound -PRON- whistle . that 
      bring Murcher and two more to the spot . " 

      " be the street empty then ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be , as far as anybody that could be of any good go . " 

      " what do -PRON- mean ? " 

      the constable 's feature broaden into a grin . " -PRON- have see many a 
      drunk chap in -PRON- time , " -PRON- say , " but never anyone so cryin ' drunk as 
      that cove . -PRON- be at the gate when -PRON- come out , a - leanin ' up ag'in the 
      railing , and a - singin ' at the pitch o ' -PRON- lung about Columbine 's 
      new - fangle Banner , or some such stuff . -PRON- could not stand , far less 
      help . " 

      " what sort of a man be -PRON- ? " ask Sherlock Holmes . 

      John Rance appear to be somewhat irritated at this digression . " -PRON- 
      be an uncommon drunk sort o ' man , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- would ha ' find hisself 
      in the station if -PRON- have not be so take up . " 

      " -PRON- face -- -PRON- dress -- didn't -PRON- notice -PRON- ? " Holmes break in 
      impatiently . 

      " -PRON- should think -PRON- do notice -PRON- , see that -PRON- have to prop -PRON- 
      up -- -PRON- and Murcher between -PRON- . -PRON- be a long chap , with a red face , 
      the low part muffle round-- " 

      " that will do , " cry Holmes . " what become of -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- would enough to do without lookin ' after -PRON- , " the policeman say , in 
      an aggrieved voice . " -PRON- will wager -PRON- find -PRON- way home all right . " 

      " how be -PRON- dress ? " 

      " a brown overcoat . " 

      " have -PRON- a whip in -PRON- hand ? " 

      " a whip -- no . " 

      " -PRON- must have leave -PRON- behind , " mutter -PRON- companion . " -PRON- do not 
      happen to see or hear a cab after that ? " 

      " no . " 

      " there be a half - sovereign for -PRON- , " -PRON- companion say , stand up 
      and take -PRON- hat . " -PRON- be afraid , Rance , that -PRON- will never rise in 
      the force . that head of -PRON- should be for use as well as ornament . 
      -PRON- may have gain -PRON- sergeant 's stripe last night . the man 
      whom -PRON- hold in -PRON- hand be the man who hold the clue of this 
      mystery , and whom -PRON- be seek . there be no use of argue about -PRON- 
      now ; -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be so . come along , Doctor . " 

      -PRON- start off for the cab together , leave -PRON- informant 
      incredulous , but obviously uncomfortable . 

      " the blunder fool , " Holmes say , bitterly , as -PRON- drive back to -PRON- 
      lodging . " just to think of -PRON- have such an incomparable bit of 
      good luck , and not take advantage of -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be rather in the dark still . -PRON- be true that the description of 
      this man tally with -PRON- idea of the second party in this mystery . 
      but why should -PRON- come back to the house after leave -PRON- ? that be 
      not the way of criminal . " 

      " the ring , man , the ring : that be what -PRON- come back for . if -PRON- have 
      no other way of catch -PRON- , -PRON- can always bait -PRON- line with the 
      ring . -PRON- shall have -PRON- , Doctor -- I'll lie -PRON- two to one that -PRON- have 
      -PRON- . -PRON- must thank -PRON- for -PRON- all . -PRON- may not have go but for -PRON- , 
      and so have miss the fine study -PRON- ever come across : a study in 
      scarlet , eh ? why should not -PRON- use a little art jargon . there be the 
      scarlet thread of murder run through the colourless skein of 
      life , and -PRON- duty be to unravel -PRON- , and isolate -PRON- , and expose every 
      inch of -PRON- . and now for lunch , and then for Norman Neruda . -PRON- attack 
      and -PRON- bowing be splendid . what be that little thing of Chopin 's -PRON- 
      play so magnificently : Tra - la - la - lira - lira - lay . " 

      lean back in the cab , this amateur bloodhound carol away like a 
      lark while -PRON- meditate upon the many - sidedness of the human mind . 





           CHAPTER V 
           -PRON- Advertisement bring a Visitor 


      -PRON- morning 's exertion have be too much for -PRON- weak health , and -PRON- 
      be tired out in the afternoon . after Holmes ' departure for the 
      concert , -PRON- lie down upon the sofa and endeavour to get a couple of 
      hour ' sleep . -PRON- be a useless attempt . -PRON- mind have be too much 
      excite by all that have occur , and the strange fancy and 
      surmise crowd into -PRON- . every time that -PRON- close -PRON- eye -PRON- see 
      before -PRON- the distorted baboon - like countenance of the murder man . 
      so sinister be the impression which that face have produce upon -PRON- 
      that -PRON- find -PRON- difficult to feel anything but gratitude for -PRON- who 
      have remove -PRON- owner from the world . if ever human feature bespoke 
      vice of the most malignant type , -PRON- be certainly those of Enoch 
      J. Drebber , of Cleveland . still -PRON- recognize that justice must be 
      do , and that the depravity of the victim be no condonement in the 
      eye of the law . 

      the more -PRON- think of -PRON- the more extraordinary do -PRON- companion 's 
      hypothesis , that the man have be poison , appear . -PRON- remember how 
      -PRON- have sniff -PRON- lip , and have no doubt that -PRON- have detect 
      something which have give rise to the idea . then , again , if not 
      poison , what have cause the man 's death , since there be neither 
      wound nor mark of strangulation ? but , on the other hand , whose blood 
      be that which lie so thickly upon the floor ? there be no sign of 
      a struggle , nor have the victim any weapon with which -PRON- may have 
      wound an antagonist . as long as all these question be unsolved , 
      -PRON- feel that sleep would be no easy matter , either for Holmes or 
      -PRON- . -PRON- quiet self - confident manner convince -PRON- that -PRON- have 
      already form a theory which explain all the fact , though what -PRON- 
      be -PRON- could not for an instant conjecture . 

      -PRON- be very late in return -- so late , that -PRON- know that the concert 
      could not have detain -PRON- all the time . dinner be on the table 
      before -PRON- appear . 

      " -PRON- be magnificent , " -PRON- say , as -PRON- take -PRON- seat . " do -PRON- remember 
      what Darwin say about music ? -PRON- claim that the power of produce 
      and appreciate -PRON- exist among the human race long before the 
      power of speech be arrive at . perhaps that be why -PRON- be so subtly 
      influence by -PRON- . there be vague memory in -PRON- soul of those 
      misty century when the world be in -PRON- childhood . " 

      " that be rather a broad idea , " -PRON- remark . 

      " One 's idea must be as broad as Nature if -PRON- be to interpret 
      Nature , " -PRON- answer . " what be the matter ? -PRON- be not look quite 
      -PRON- . this Brixton Road affair have upset -PRON- . " 

      " to tell the truth , -PRON- have , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- ought to be more 
      case - harden after -PRON- afghan experience . -PRON- see -PRON- own comrade 
      hack to piece at Maiwand without lose -PRON- nerve . " 

      " -PRON- can understand . there be a mystery about this which stimulate the 
      imagination ; where there be no imagination there be no horror . have 
      -PRON- see the evening paper ? " 

      " no . " 

      " -PRON- give a fairly good account of the affair . -PRON- do not mention 
      the fact that when the man be raise up , a woman 's wedding ring fall 
      upon the floor . -PRON- be just as well -PRON- do not . " 

      " why ? " 

      " look at this advertisement , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- have one send to every 
      paper this morning immediately after the affair . " 

      -PRON- throw the paper across to -PRON- and -PRON- glance at the place indicate . 
      -PRON- be the first announcement in the " Found " column . " in Brixton 
      Road , this morning , " -PRON- run , " a plain gold wedding ring , find in the 
      roadway between the ' White Hart ' Tavern and Holland Grove . apply Dr. 
      Watson , 221b , Baker Street , between eight and nine this evening . " 

      " excuse -PRON- use -PRON- name , " -PRON- say . " if -PRON- use -PRON- own some of these 
      dunderhead would recognize -PRON- , and want to meddle in the affair . " 

      " that be all right , " -PRON- answer . " but suppose anyone apply , -PRON- 
      have no ring . " 

      " oh yes , -PRON- have , " say -PRON- , hand -PRON- one . " this will do very well . 
      -PRON- be almost a facsimile . " 

      " and who do -PRON- expect will answer this advertisement . " 

      " why , the man in the brown coat -- -PRON- florid friend with the square 
      toe . if -PRON- do not come -PRON- -PRON- will send an accomplice . " 

      " Would -PRON- not consider -PRON- as too dangerous ? " 

      " not at all . if -PRON- view of the case be correct , and -PRON- have every 
      reason to believe that -PRON- be , this man would rather risk anything 
      than lose the ring . accord to -PRON- notion -PRON- drop -PRON- while 
      stoop over Drebber 's body , and do not miss -PRON- at the time . after 
      leave the house -PRON- discover -PRON- loss and hurry back , but find 
      the police already in possession , owe to -PRON- own folly in leave 
      the candle burning . -PRON- have to pretend to be drunk in order to allay 
      the suspicion which may have be arouse by -PRON- appearance at the 
      gate . now put -PRON- in that man 's place . on think the matter 
      over , -PRON- must have occur to -PRON- that -PRON- be possible that -PRON- have 
      lose the ring in the road after leave the house . what would -PRON- do , 
      then ? -PRON- would eagerly look out for the evening paper in the hope of 
      see -PRON- among the article find . -PRON- eye , of course , would light 
      upon this . -PRON- would be overjoy . why should -PRON- fear a trap ? there 
      would be no reason in -PRON- eye why the finding of the ring should be 
      connect with the murder . -PRON- would come . -PRON- will come . -PRON- shall see 
      -PRON- within an hour . " 

      " and then ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " oh , -PRON- can leave -PRON- to deal with -PRON- then . have -PRON- any arm ? " 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- old service revolver and a few cartridge . " 

      " -PRON- have better clean -PRON- and load -PRON- . -PRON- will be a desperate man , and 
      though -PRON- shall take -PRON- unawares , -PRON- be as well to be ready for 
      anything . " 

      -PRON- go to -PRON- bedroom and follow -PRON- advice . when -PRON- return with 
      the pistol the table have be clear , and Holmes be engage in -PRON- 
      favourite occupation of scrape upon -PRON- violin . 

      " the plot thicken , " -PRON- say , as -PRON- enter ; " -PRON- have just have an 
      answer to -PRON- american telegram . -PRON- view of the case be the correct 
      one . " 

      " and that be ? " -PRON- ask eagerly . 

      " -PRON- fiddle would be the well for new string , " -PRON- remark . " put 
      -PRON- pistol in -PRON- pocket . when the fellow come speak to -PRON- in an 
      ordinary way . leave the rest to -PRON- . do not frighten -PRON- by look at 
      -PRON- too hard . " 

      " -PRON- be eight o'clock now , " -PRON- say , glance at -PRON- watch . 

      " yes . -PRON- will probably be here in a few minute . open the door 
      slightly . that will do . now put the key on the inside . thank -PRON- ! 
      this be a queer old book -PRON- pick up at a stall yesterday -- De Jure 
      inter Gentes -- publish in Latin at Liege in the lowland , in 1642 . 
      Charles ' head be still firm on -PRON- shoulder when this little 
      brown - back volume be strike off . " 

      " who be the printer ? " 

      " Philippe de Croy , whoever -PRON- may have be . on the fly - leaf , in very 
      fade ink , be write ' Ex libris Guliolmi Whyte . ' -PRON- wonder who 
      William Whyte be . some pragmatical seventeenth century lawyer , -PRON- 
      suppose . -PRON- writing have a legal twist about -PRON- . here come -PRON- man , 
      -PRON- think . " 

      as -PRON- speak there be a sharp ring at the bell . Sherlock Holmes rise 
      softly and move -PRON- chair in the direction of the door . -PRON- hear the 
      servant pass along the hall , and the sharp click of the latch as -PRON- 
      open -PRON- . 

      " do Dr. Watson live here ? " ask a clear but rather harsh voice . -PRON- 
      could not hear the servant 's reply , but the door close , and some one 
      begin to ascend the stair . the footfall be an uncertain and 
      shuffle one . a look of surprise pass over the face of -PRON- 
      companion as -PRON- listen to -PRON- . -PRON- come slowly along the passage , and 
      there be a feeble tap at the door . 

      " come in , " -PRON- cry . 

      at -PRON- summon , instead of the man of violence whom -PRON- expect , a 
      very old and wrinkled woman hobble into the apartment . -PRON- appear 
      to be dazzle by the sudden blaze of light , and after drop a 
      curtsey , -PRON- stand blink at -PRON- with -PRON- blear eye and fumble 
      in -PRON- pocket with nervous , shaky finger . -PRON- glance at -PRON- companion , 
      and -PRON- face have assume such a disconsolate expression that -PRON- be 
      all -PRON- could do to keep -PRON- countenance . 

      the old crone draw out an evening paper , and point at -PRON- 
      advertisement . " -PRON- be this as have bring -PRON- , good gentleman , " -PRON- 
      say , drop another curtsey ; " a gold wedding ring in the Brixton 
      Road . -PRON- belong to -PRON- girl Sally , as be married only this time 
      twelvemonth , which -PRON- husband be steward aboard a Union boat , and 
      what -PRON- would say if -PRON- come ' ome and find -PRON- without -PRON- ring be more 
      than -PRON- can think , -PRON- be short enough at the good o ' time , but 
      more especially when -PRON- have the drink . if -PRON- please -PRON- , -PRON- go to 
      the circus last night along with-- " 

      " be that -PRON- ring ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " the Lord be thank ! " cry the old woman ; " Sally will be a glad 
      woman this night . that be the ring . " 

      " and what may -PRON- address be ? " -PRON- inquire , take up a pencil . 

      " 13 , Duncan Street , Houndsditch . a weary way from here . " 

      " the Brixton Road do not lie between any circus and houndsditch , " 
      say Sherlock Holmes sharply . 

      the old woman face round and look keenly at -PRON- from -PRON- little 
      red - rim eye . " the gentleman ask -PRON- for -PRON- address , " -PRON- say . 
      " Sally live in lodging at 3 , Mayfield Place , Peckham . " 

      " and -PRON- name is-- ? " 

      " -PRON- name be Sawyer -- -PRON- 's be Dennis , which Tom Dennis marry 
      -PRON- -- and a smart , clean lad , too , as long as -PRON- be at sea , and no 
      steward in the company more thought of ; but when on shore , what with 
      the woman and what with liquor shops-- " 

      " here be -PRON- ring , Mrs. Sawyer , " -PRON- interrupt , in obedience to a 
      sign from -PRON- companion ; " -PRON- clearly belong to -PRON- daughter , and -PRON- 
      be glad to be able to restore -PRON- to the rightful owner . " 

      with many mumble blessing and protestation of gratitude the old 
      crone pack -PRON- away in -PRON- pocket , and shuffle off down the stair . 
      Sherlock Holmes spring to -PRON- foot the moment that -PRON- be go and 
      rush into -PRON- room . -PRON- return in a few second envelop in an 
      ulster and a cravat . " -PRON- will follow -PRON- , " -PRON- say , hurriedly ; " -PRON- must 
      be an accomplice , and will lead -PRON- to -PRON- . wait up for -PRON- . " the hall 
      door have hardly slam behind -PRON- visitor before Holmes have 
      descend the stair . look through the window -PRON- could see -PRON- 
      walk feebly along the other side , while -PRON- pursuer dog -PRON- 
      some little distance behind . " either -PRON- whole theory be incorrect , " 
      -PRON- think to -PRON- , " or else -PRON- will be lead now to the heart of the 
      mystery . " there be no need for -PRON- to ask -PRON- to wait up for -PRON- , for 
      -PRON- feel that sleep be impossible until -PRON- hear the result of -PRON- 
      adventure . 

      -PRON- be close upon nine when -PRON- set out . -PRON- have no idea how long -PRON- 
      may be , but -PRON- sit stolidly puff at -PRON- pipe and skip over the 
      page of Henri Murger 's Vie de Bohme . ten o'clock pass , and -PRON- 
      hear the footstep of the maid as -PRON- patter off to bed . eleven , 
      and the more stately tread of the landlady pass -PRON- door , bind for 
      the same destination . -PRON- be close upon twelve before -PRON- hear the 
      sharp sound of -PRON- latch - key . the instant -PRON- enter -PRON- see by -PRON- 
      face that -PRON- have not be successful . amusement and chagrin seem to 
      be struggle for the mastery , until the former suddenly carry the 
      day , and -PRON- burst into a hearty laugh . 

      " -PRON- would not have the Scotland Yarders know -PRON- for the world , " -PRON- 
      cry , drop into -PRON- chair ; " -PRON- have chaff -PRON- so much that 
      -PRON- would never have let -PRON- hear the end of -PRON- . -PRON- can afford to 
      laugh , because -PRON- know that -PRON- will be even with -PRON- in the long run . " 

      " what be -PRON- then ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " oh , -PRON- do not mind tell a story against -PRON- . that creature have 
      go a little way when -PRON- begin to limp and show every sign of be 
      foot - sore . presently -PRON- come to a halt , and hail a four - wheeler 
      which be pass . -PRON- manage to be close to -PRON- so as to hear the 
      address , but -PRON- need not have be so anxious , for -PRON- sing -PRON- out 
      loud enough to be hear at the other side of the street , ' drive to 
      13 , Duncan Street , Houndsditch , ' -PRON- cry . this begin to look 
      genuine , -PRON- think , and have see -PRON- safely inside , -PRON- perch 
      -PRON- behind . that be an art which every detective should be an 
      expert at . well , away -PRON- rattle , and never draw rein until -PRON- 
      reach the street in question . -PRON- hop off before -PRON- come to the 
      door , and stroll down the street in an easy , lounge way . -PRON- see 
      the cab pull up . the driver jump down , and -PRON- see -PRON- open the door 
      and stand expectantly . nothing come out though . when -PRON- reach -PRON- -PRON- 
      be grope about frantically in the empty cab , and give vent to 
      the finest assorted collection of oath that ever -PRON- listen to . 
      there be no sign or trace of -PRON- passenger , and -PRON- fear -PRON- will be 
      some time before -PRON- get -PRON- fare . on inquire at Number 13 -PRON- find 
      that the house belong to a respectable paperhanger , name Keswick , 
      and that no one of the name either of Sawyer or Dennis have ever be 
      hear of there . " 

      " -PRON- do not mean to say , " -PRON- cry , in amazement , " that that tottering , 
      feeble old woman be able to get out of the cab while -PRON- be in 
      motion , without either -PRON- or the driver see -PRON- ? " 

      " old woman be damn ! " say Sherlock Holmes , sharply . " -PRON- be the 
      old woman to be so take in . -PRON- must have be a young man , and an 
      active one , too , besides be an incomparable actor . the get - up be 
      inimitable . -PRON- see that -PRON- be follow , no doubt , and use this 
      mean of give -PRON- the slip . -PRON- show that the man -PRON- be after be 
      not as lonely as -PRON- imagine -PRON- be , but have friend who be ready to 
      risk something for -PRON- . now , Doctor , -PRON- be look do - up . take -PRON- 
      advice and turn in . " 

      -PRON- be certainly feel very weary , so -PRON- obey -PRON- injunction . -PRON- 
      leave Holmes seat in front of the smouldering fire , and long into 
      the watch of the night -PRON- hear the low , melancholy wailing of -PRON- 
      violin , and know that -PRON- be still ponder over the strange problem 
      which -PRON- have set -PRON- to unravel . 





           CHAPTER VI 
           Tobias Gregson show what -PRON- Can do 


      the paper next day be full of the " Brixton Mystery , " as -PRON- 
      term -PRON- . each have a long account of the affair , and some have 
      leader upon -PRON- in addition . there be some information in -PRON- which 
      be new to -PRON- . -PRON- still retain in -PRON- scrap - book numerous clipping and 
      extract bear upon the case . here be a condensation of a few of 
      them:-- 

      the Daily Telegraph remark that in the history of crime there have 
      seldom be a tragedy which present strange feature . the german 
      name of the victim , the absence of all other motive , and the sinister 
      inscription on the wall , all point to -PRON- perpetration by political 
      refugee and revolutionist . the Socialists have many branch in 
      America , and the deceased have , no doubt , infringe -PRON- unwritten 
      law , and be track down by -PRON- . after allude airily to the 
      Vehmgericht , aqua tofana , Carbonari , the Marchioness de Brinvilliers , 
      the darwinian theory , the principle of Malthus , and the Ratcliff 
      Highway murder , the article conclude by admonish the Government 
      and advocate a close watch over foreigner in England . 

      the Standard comment upon the fact that lawless outrage of the 
      sort usually occur under a Liberal Administration . -PRON- arise from 
      the unsettling of the mind of the masse , and the consequent 
      weaken of all authority . the deceased be an american gentleman 
      who have be reside for some week in the Metropolis . -PRON- have stay 
      at the boarding - house of Madame Charpentier , in Torquay Terrace , 
      Camberwell . -PRON- be accompany in -PRON- travel by -PRON- private 
      secretary , Mr. Joseph Stangerson . the two bade adieu to -PRON- 
      landlady upon Tuesday , the 4th inst . , and depart to Euston Station 
      with the avow intention of catch the Liverpool express . -PRON- 
      be afterwards see together upon the platform . nothing more be 
      know of -PRON- until Mr. Drebber 's body be , as record , discover 
      in an empty house in the Brixton Road , many mile from Euston . how -PRON- 
      come there , or how -PRON- meet -PRON- fate , be question which be still 
      involve in mystery . nothing be know of the whereabouts of 
      Stangerson . -PRON- be glad to learn that Mr. Lestrade and Mr. Gregson , 
      of Scotland Yard , be both engage upon the case , and -PRON- be 
      confidently anticipate that these well - know officer will speedily 
      throw light upon the matter . 

      the Daily News observe that there be no doubt as to the crime be 
      a political one . the despotism and hatred of Liberalism which 
      animate the Continental Governments have have the effect of drive to 
      -PRON- shore a number of man who may have make excellent citizen 
      be -PRON- not sour by the recollection of all that -PRON- have 
      undergo . among these man there be a stringent code of honour , any 
      infringement of which be punish by death . every effort should be 
      make to find the secretary , Stangerson , and to ascertain some 
      particular of the habit of the deceased . a great step have be 
      gain by the discovery of the address of the house at which -PRON- have 
      board -- a result which be entirely due to the acuteness and energy 
      of Mr. Gregson of Scotland Yard . 

      Sherlock Holmes and -PRON- read these notice over together at breakfast , 
      and -PRON- appear to afford -PRON- considerable amusement . 

      " -PRON- tell -PRON- that , whatever happen , Lestrade and Gregson would be 
      sure to score . " 

      " that depend on how -PRON- turn out . " 

      " oh , bless -PRON- , -PRON- do not matter in the least . if the man be catch , 
      -PRON- will be on account of -PRON- exertion ; if -PRON- escape , -PRON- will be 
      in spite of -PRON- exertion . -PRON- be head -PRON- win and tail -PRON- lose . 
      whatever -PRON- do , -PRON- will have follower . ' Un sot trouve toujour 
      un plus sot qui l'admire . ' " 

      " what on earth be this ? " -PRON- cry , for at this moment there come the 
      patter of many step in the hall and on the stair , accompany by 
      audible expression of disgust upon the part of -PRON- landlady . 

      " -PRON- be the Baker Street division of the detective police force , " say 
      -PRON- companion , gravely ; and as -PRON- speak there rush into the room 
      half a dozen of the dirty and most ragged street Arabs that ever -PRON- 
      clap eye on . 

      " ' tention ! " cry Holmes , in a sharp tone , and the six dirty little 
      scoundrel stand in a line like so many disreputable statuette . " in 
      future -PRON- shall send up Wiggins alone to report , and the rest of -PRON- 
      must wait in the street . have -PRON- find -PRON- , Wiggins ? " 

      " no , sir , -PRON- hain't , " say one of the youth . 

      " -PRON- hardly expect -PRON- would . -PRON- must keep on until -PRON- do . here be 
      -PRON- wage . " -PRON- hand each of -PRON- a shilling . " now , off -PRON- go , and 
      come back with a well report next time . " 

      -PRON- wave -PRON- hand , and -PRON- scamper away downstairs like so many 
      rat , and -PRON- hear -PRON- shrill voice next moment in the street . 

      " there be more work to be get out of one of those little beggar than 
      out of a dozen of the force , " Holmes remark . " the mere sight of an 
      official - look person seal man 's lip . these youngster , however , 
      go everywhere and hear everything . -PRON- be as sharp as needle , too ; 
      all -PRON- want be organisation . " 

      " be -PRON- on this Brixton case that -PRON- be employ -PRON- ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " yes ; there be a point which -PRON- wish to ascertain . -PRON- be merely a 
      matter of time . hullo ! -PRON- be go to hear some news now with a 
      vengeance ! here be Gregson come down the road with beatitude 
      write upon every feature of -PRON- face . bind for -PRON- , -PRON- know . yes , -PRON- 
      be stop . there -PRON- be ! " 

      there be a violent peal at the bell , and in a few second the 
      fair - haired detective come up the stair , three step at a time , and 
      burst into -PRON- sitting - room . 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , " -PRON- cry , wring Holmes ' unresponsive hand , 
      " congratulate -PRON- ! -PRON- have make the whole thing as clear as day . " 

      a shade of anxiety seem to -PRON- to cross -PRON- companion 's expressive 
      face . 

      " do -PRON- mean that -PRON- be on the right track ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " the right track ! why , sir , -PRON- have the man under lock and key . " 

      " and -PRON- name be ? " 

      " Arthur Charpentier , sub - lieutenant in -PRON- Majesty 's navy , " cry 
      Gregson , pompously , rub -PRON- fat hand and inflate -PRON- chest . 

      Sherlock Holmes give a sigh of relief , and relax into a smile . 

      " take a seat , and try one of these cigar , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- be anxious 
      to know how -PRON- manage -PRON- . Will -PRON- have some whiskey and water ? " 

      " -PRON- do not mind if -PRON- do , " the detective answer . " the tremendous 
      exertion which -PRON- have go through during the last day or two have 
      wear -PRON- out . not so much bodily exertion , -PRON- understand , as the 
      strain upon the mind . -PRON- will appreciate that , Mr. Sherlock Holmes , 
      for -PRON- be both brain - worker . " 

      " -PRON- do -PRON- too much honour , " say Holmes , gravely . " let -PRON- hear how 
      -PRON- arrive at this most gratifying result . " 

      the detective seat -PRON- in the arm - chair , and puff 
      complacently at -PRON- cigar . then suddenly -PRON- slap -PRON- thigh in a 
      paroxysm of amusement . 

      " the fun of -PRON- be , " -PRON- cry , " that that fool Lestrade , who think 
      -PRON- so smart , have go off upon the wrong track altogether . -PRON- be 
      after the secretary Stangerson , who have no more to do with the crime 
      than the babe unborn . -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- have catch -PRON- by this 
      time . " 

      the idea tickle Gregson so much that -PRON- laugh until -PRON- choke . 

      " and how do -PRON- get -PRON- clue ? " 

      " ah , -PRON- will tell -PRON- all about -PRON- . of course , Doctor Watson , this be 
      strictly between -PRON- . the first difficulty which -PRON- have to 
      contend with be the finding of this American 's antecedent . some 
      people would have wait until -PRON- advertisement be answer , or 
      until party come forward and volunteer information . that be not 
      Tobias Gregson 's way of go to work . -PRON- remember the hat beside 
      the dead man ? " 

      " yes , " say Holmes ; " by John Underwood and Sons , 129 , Camberwell 
      Road . " 

      Gregson look quite crest - fall . 

      " -PRON- have no idea that -PRON- notice that , " -PRON- say . " have -PRON- be 
      there ? " 

      " no . " 

      " ha ! " cry Gregson , in a relieved voice ; " -PRON- should never neglect a 
      chance , however small -PRON- may seem . " 

      " to a great mind , nothing be little , " remark Holmes , sententiously . 

      " well , -PRON- go to Underwood , and ask -PRON- if -PRON- have sell a hat of 
      that size and description . -PRON- look over -PRON- book , and come on -PRON- 
      at once . -PRON- have send the hat to a Mr. Drebber , reside at 
      Charpentier 's Boarding Establishment , Torquay Terrace . thus -PRON- get at 
      -PRON- address . " 

      " smart -- very smart ! " murmur Sherlock Holmes . 

      " -PRON- next call upon Madame Charpentier , " continue the detective . " -PRON- 
      find -PRON- very pale and distressed . -PRON- daughter be in the room , 
      too -- an uncommonly fine girl -PRON- be , too ; -PRON- be look red about 
      the eye and -PRON- lip tremble as -PRON- speak to -PRON- . that do not escape 
      -PRON- notice . -PRON- begin to smell a rat . -PRON- know the feeling , Mr. Sherlock 
      Holmes , when -PRON- come upon the right scent -- a kind of thrill in -PRON- 
      nerve . ' have -PRON- hear of the mysterious death of -PRON- late boarder 
      Mr. Enoch J. Drebber , of Cleveland ? ' -PRON- ask . 

      " the mother nod . -PRON- do not seem able to get out a word . the 
      daughter burst into tear . -PRON- feel more than ever that these people 
      know something of the matter . 

      " ' at what o'clock do Mr. Drebber leave -PRON- house for the train ? ' -PRON- 
      ask . 

      " ' at eight o'clock , ' -PRON- say , gulp in -PRON- throat to keep down -PRON- 
      agitation . ' -PRON- secretary , Mr. Stangerson , say that there be two 
      train -- one at 9.15 and one at 11 . -PRON- be to catch the first . ' 

      " ' and be that the last which -PRON- see of -PRON- ? ' 

      " a terrible change come over the woman 's face as -PRON- ask the 
      question . -PRON- feature turn perfectly livid . -PRON- be some second 
      before -PRON- could get out the single word ' yes'--and when -PRON- do come 
      -PRON- be in a husky unnatural tone . 

      " there be silence for a moment , and then the daughter speak in a 
      calm clear voice . 

      " ' no good can ever come of falsehood , mother , ' -PRON- say . ' let -PRON- be 
      frank with this gentleman . -PRON- do see Mr. Drebber again . ' 

      " ' God forgive -PRON- ! ' cry Madame Charpentier , throw up -PRON- hand 
      and sink back in -PRON- chair . ' -PRON- have murder -PRON- brother . ' 

      " ' Arthur would rather that -PRON- speak the truth , ' the girl answer 
      firmly . 

      " ' -PRON- have best tell -PRON- all about -PRON- now , ' -PRON- say . ' half - confidence 
      be bad than none . besides , -PRON- do not know how much -PRON- know of 
      -PRON- . ' 

      " ' on -PRON- head be -PRON- , Alice ! ' cry -PRON- mother ; and then , turn to 
      -PRON- , ' -PRON- will tell -PRON- all , sir . do not imagine that -PRON- agitation on 
      behalf of -PRON- son arise from any fear lest -PRON- should have have a hand 
      in this terrible affair . -PRON- be utterly innocent of -PRON- . -PRON- dread be , 
      however , that in -PRON- eye and in the eye of other -PRON- may appear to 
      be compromise . that however be surely impossible . -PRON- high 
      character , -PRON- profession , -PRON- antecedent would all forbid -PRON- . ' 

      " ' -PRON- good way be to make a clean breast of the fact , ' -PRON- answer . 
      ' depend upon -PRON- , if -PRON- son be innocent -PRON- will be none the bad . ' 

      " ' perhaps , Alice , -PRON- have better leave -PRON- together , ' -PRON- say , and 
      -PRON- daughter withdraw . ' now , sir , ' -PRON- continue , ' -PRON- have no intention 
      of tell -PRON- all this , but since -PRON- poor daughter have disclose -PRON- 
      -PRON- have no alternative . have once decide to speak , -PRON- will tell -PRON- 
      all without omit any particular . ' 

      " ' -PRON- be -PRON- wise course , ' say I. 

      " ' Mr . Drebber have be with -PRON- nearly three week . -PRON- and -PRON- 
      secretary , Mr. Stangerson , have be travel on the Continent . -PRON- 
      notice a " Copenhagen " label upon each of -PRON- trunk , show that 
      that have be -PRON- last stop place . Stangerson be a quiet 
      reserved man , but -PRON- employer , -PRON- be sorry to say , be far otherwise . 
      -PRON- be coarse in -PRON- habit and brutish in -PRON- way . the very night 
      of -PRON- arrival -PRON- become very much the bad for drink , and , indeed , 
      after twelve o'clock in the day -PRON- could hardly ever be say to be 
      sober . -PRON- manner towards the maid - servant be disgustingly free 
      and familiar . bad of all , -PRON- speedily assume the same attitude 
      towards -PRON- daughter , Alice , and speak to -PRON- more than once in a way 
      which , fortunately , -PRON- be too innocent to understand . on one 
      occasion -PRON- actually seize -PRON- in -PRON- arm and embrace -PRON- -- an 
      outrage which cause -PRON- own secretary to reproach -PRON- for -PRON- 
      unmanly conduct . ' 

      " ' but why do -PRON- stand all this , ' -PRON- ask . ' -PRON- suppose that -PRON- can 
      get rid of -PRON- boarder when -PRON- wish . ' 

      " Mrs. Charpentier blush at -PRON- pertinent question . ' Would to God 
      that -PRON- have give -PRON- notice on the very day that -PRON- come , ' -PRON- say . 
      ' but -PRON- be a sore temptation . -PRON- be pay a pound a day 
      each -- fourteen pound a week , and this be the slack season . -PRON- be a 
      widow , and -PRON- boy in the Navy have cost -PRON- much . -PRON- grudge to lose the 
      money . -PRON- act for the good . this last be too much , however , and -PRON- 
      give -PRON- notice to leave on account of -PRON- . that be the reason of -PRON- 
      go . ' 

      " ' well ? ' 

      " ' -PRON- heart grow light when -PRON- see -PRON- drive away . -PRON- son be on leave 
      just now , but -PRON- do not tell -PRON- anything of all this , for -PRON- temper 
      be violent , and -PRON- be passionately fond of -PRON- sister . when -PRON- close 
      the door behind -PRON- a load seem to be lift from -PRON- mind . alas , 
      in less than an hour there be a ring at the bell , and -PRON- learn that 
      Mr. Drebber have return . -PRON- be much excited , and evidently the 
      bad for drink . -PRON- force -PRON- way into the room , where -PRON- be sit 
      with -PRON- daughter , and make some incoherent remark about have miss 
      -PRON- train . -PRON- then turn to Alice , and before -PRON- very face , propose 
      to -PRON- that -PRON- should fly with -PRON- . " -PRON- be of age , " -PRON- say , " and 
      there be no law to stop -PRON- . -PRON- have money enough and to spare . never 
      mind the old girl here , but come along with -PRON- now straight away . -PRON- 
      shall live like a princess . " Poor Alice be so frightened that -PRON- 
      shrink away from -PRON- , but -PRON- catch -PRON- by the wrist and endeavour 
      to draw -PRON- towards the door . -PRON- scream , and at that moment -PRON- son 
      Arthur come into the room . what happen then -PRON- do not know . -PRON- hear 
      oath and the confused sound of a scuffle . -PRON- be too terrified to 
      raise -PRON- head . when -PRON- do look up -PRON- see Arthur stand in the 
      doorway laughing , with a stick in -PRON- hand . " -PRON- do not think that fine 
      fellow will trouble -PRON- again , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- will just go after -PRON- and 
      see what -PRON- do with -PRON- . " with those word -PRON- take -PRON- hat and 
      start off down the street . the next morning -PRON- hear of Mr. 
      Drebber 's mysterious death . ' 

      " this statement come from Mrs. Charpentier 's lip with many gasp and 
      pause . at time -PRON- speak so low that -PRON- could hardly catch the 
      word . -PRON- make shorthand note of all that -PRON- say , however , so that 
      there should be no possibility of a mistake . " 

      " -PRON- be quite exciting , " say Sherlock Holmes , with a yawn . " what 
      happen next ? " 

      " when Mrs. Charpentier pause , " the detective continue , " -PRON- see that 
      the whole case hang upon one point . fix -PRON- with -PRON- eye in a way 
      which -PRON- always find effective with woman , -PRON- ask -PRON- at what hour 
      -PRON- son return . 

      " ' -PRON- do not know , ' -PRON- answer . 

      " ' not know ? ' 

      " ' no ; -PRON- have a latch - key , and -PRON- let -PRON- in . ' 

      " ' after -PRON- go to bed ? ' 

      " ' yes . ' 

      " ' when do -PRON- go to bed ? ' 

      " ' about eleven . ' 

      " ' so -PRON- son be go at least two hour ? ' 

      " ' yes . ' 

      " ' possibly four or five ? ' 

      " ' yes . ' 

      " ' what be -PRON- do during that time ? ' 

      " ' -PRON- do not know , ' -PRON- answer , turn white to -PRON- very lip . 

      " of course after that there be nothing more to be do . -PRON- find out 
      where Lieutenant Charpentier be , take two officer with -PRON- , and 
      arrest -PRON- . when -PRON- touch -PRON- on the shoulder and warn -PRON- to 
      come quietly with -PRON- , -PRON- answer -PRON- as bold as brass , ' -PRON- suppose -PRON- 
      be arrest -PRON- for be concern in the death of that scoundrel 
      Drebber , ' -PRON- say . -PRON- have say nothing to -PRON- about -PRON- , so that -PRON- 
      allude to -PRON- have a most suspicious aspect . " 

      " very , " say Holmes . 

      " -PRON- still carry the heavy stick which the mother describe -PRON- as 
      have with -PRON- when -PRON- follow Drebber . -PRON- be a stout oak cudgel . " 

      " what be -PRON- theory , then ? " 

      " well , -PRON- theory be that -PRON- follow Drebber as far as the Brixton 
      Road . when there , a fresh altercation arise between -PRON- , in the 
      course of which Drebber receive a blow from the stick , in the pit of 
      the stomach , perhaps , which kill -PRON- without leave any mark . the 
      night be so wet that no one be about , so Charpentier drag the 
      body of -PRON- victim into the empty house . as to the candle , and the 
      blood , and the writing on the wall , and the ring , -PRON- may all be so 
      many trick to throw the police on to the wrong scent . " 

      " well do ! " say Holmes in an encouraging voice . " really , Gregson , 
      -PRON- be get along . -PRON- shall make something of -PRON- yet . " 

      " -PRON- flatter -PRON- that -PRON- have manage -PRON- rather neatly , " the 
      detective answer proudly . " the young man volunteer a statement , 
      in which -PRON- say that after follow Drebber some time , the latter 
      perceive -PRON- , and take a cab in order to get away from -PRON- . on -PRON- 
      way home -PRON- meet an old shipmate , and take a long walk with -PRON- . on 
      be ask where this old shipmate live , -PRON- be unable to give any 
      satisfactory reply . -PRON- think the whole case fit together uncommonly 
      well . what amuse -PRON- be to think of Lestrade , who have start off 
      upon the wrong scent . -PRON- be afraid -PRON- will not make much of -- why , by 
      jove , here be the very man -PRON- ! " 

      -PRON- be indeed Lestrade , who have ascend the stair while -PRON- be 
      talk , and who now enter the room . the assurance and jauntiness 
      which generally mark -PRON- demeanour and dress be , however , 
      want . -PRON- face be disturb and trouble , while -PRON- clothe be 
      disarranged and untidy . -PRON- have evidently come with the intention of 
      consult with Sherlock Holmes , for on perceive -PRON- colleague -PRON- 
      appear to be embarrassed and put out . -PRON- stand in the centre of the 
      room , fumble nervously with -PRON- hat and uncertain what to do . " this 
      be a most extraordinary case , " -PRON- say at last--"a most 
      incomprehensible affair . " 

      " ah , -PRON- find -PRON- so , Mr. Lestrade ! " cry Gregson , triumphantly . " -PRON- 
      think -PRON- would come to that conclusion . have -PRON- manage to find 
      the Secretary , Mr. Joseph Stangerson ? " 

      " the Secretary , Mr. Joseph Stangerson , " say Lestrade gravely , " be 
      murder at Halliday 's Private Hotel about six o'clock this morning . " 
     





           CHAPTER VII 
           light in the darkness 


      the intelligence with which Lestrade greet -PRON- be so momentous and 
      so unexpected , that -PRON- be all three fairly dumbfound . Gregson 
      spring out of -PRON- chair and upset the remainder of -PRON- whiskey and 
      water . -PRON- stare in silence at Sherlock Holmes , whose lip be 
      compress and -PRON- brow draw down over -PRON- eye . 

      " Stangerson too ! " -PRON- mutter . " the plot thicken . " 

      " -PRON- be quite thick enough before , " grumble Lestrade , take a 
      chair . " -PRON- seem to have drop into a sort of council of war . " 

      " be -PRON- -- be -PRON- sure of this piece of intelligence ? " stammer 
      Gregson . 

      " -PRON- have just come from -PRON- room , " say Lestrade . " -PRON- be the first to 
      discover what have occur . " 

      " -PRON- have be hear Gregson 's view of the matter , " Holmes observe . 
      " Would -PRON- mind let -PRON- know what -PRON- have see and do ? " 

      " -PRON- have no objection , " Lestrade answer , seat -PRON- . " -PRON- freely 
      confess that -PRON- be of the opinion that Stangerson be concern in 
      the death of Drebber . this fresh development have show -PRON- that -PRON- be 
      completely mistaken . full of the one idea , -PRON- set -PRON- to find out 
      what have become of the Secretary . -PRON- have be see together at 
      Euston Station about half - past eight on the evening of the third . at 
      two in the morning Drebber have be find in the Brixton Road . the 
      question which confront -PRON- be to find out how Stangerson have be 
      employ between 8.30 and the time of the crime , and what have become 
      of -PRON- afterwards . -PRON- telegraph to Liverpool , give a description 
      of the man , and warn -PRON- to keep a watch upon the american boat . 
      -PRON- then set to work call upon all the hotel and lodging - house in 
      the vicinity of Euston . -PRON- see , -PRON- argue that if Drebber and -PRON- 
      companion have become separate , the natural course for the latter 
      would be to put up somewhere in the vicinity for the night , and then 
      to hang about the station again next morning . " 

      " -PRON- would be likely to agree on some meeting - place beforehand , " 
      remark Holmes . 

      " so -PRON- prove . -PRON- spend the whole of yesterday evening in make 
      enquiry entirely without avail . this morning -PRON- begin very early , 
      and at eight o'clock -PRON- reach Halliday 's Private Hotel , in little 
      George Street . on -PRON- enquiry as to whether a Mr. Stangerson be 
      live there , -PRON- at once answer -PRON- in the affirmative . 

      " ' no doubt -PRON- be the gentleman whom -PRON- be expect , ' -PRON- say . 
      ' -PRON- have be wait for a gentleman for two day . ' 

      " ' where be -PRON- now ? ' -PRON- ask . 

      " ' -PRON- be upstairs in bed . -PRON- wish to be call at nine . ' 

      " ' -PRON- will go up and see -PRON- at once , ' -PRON- say . 

      " -PRON- seem to -PRON- that -PRON- sudden appearance may shake -PRON- nerve and 
      lead -PRON- to say something unguarded . the boot volunteer to show -PRON- 
      the room : -PRON- be on the second floor , and there be a small corridor 
      lead up to -PRON- . the boot point out the door to -PRON- , and be about 
      to go downstairs again when -PRON- see something that make -PRON- feel 
      sickish , in spite of -PRON- twenty year ' experience . from under the door 
      there curl a little red ribbon of blood , which have meander across 
      the passage and form a little pool along the skirting at the other 
      side . -PRON- give a cry , which bring the boot back . -PRON- nearly faint 
      when -PRON- see -PRON- . the door be lock on the inside , but -PRON- put -PRON- 
      shoulder to -PRON- , and knock -PRON- in . the window of the room be open , 
      and beside the window , all huddle up , lie the body of a man in -PRON- 
      nightdress . -PRON- be quite dead , and have be for some time , for -PRON- 
      limb be rigid and cold . when -PRON- turn -PRON- over , the boot 
      recognize -PRON- at once as be the same gentleman who have engage 
      the room under the name of Joseph Stangerson . the cause of death be 
      a deep stab in the left side , which must have penetrate the heart . 
      and now come the strange part of the affair . what do -PRON- suppose 
      be above the murder man ? " 

      -PRON- feel a creeping of the flesh , and a presentiment of come horror , 
      even before Sherlock Holmes answer . 

      " the word RACHE , write in letter of blood , " -PRON- say . 

      " that be -PRON- , " say Lestrade , in an awe - strike voice ; and -PRON- be all 
      silent for a while . 

      there be something so methodical and so incomprehensible about the 
      deed of this unknown assassin , that -PRON- impart a fresh ghastliness 
      to -PRON- crime . -PRON- nerve , which be steady enough on the field of 
      battle tingle as -PRON- think of -PRON- . 

      " the man be see , " continue Lestrade . " a milk boy , pass on -PRON- 
      way to the dairy , happen to walk down the lane which lead from the 
      mews at the back of the hotel . -PRON- notice that a ladder , which 
      usually lie there , be raise against one of the window of the 
      second floor , which be wide open . after pass , -PRON- look back and 
      see a man descend the ladder . -PRON- come down so quietly and openly that 
      the boy imagine -PRON- to be some carpenter or joiner at work in the 
      hotel . -PRON- take no particular notice of -PRON- , beyond think in -PRON- 
      own mind that -PRON- be early for -PRON- to be at work . -PRON- have an 
      impression that the man be tall , have a reddish face , and be dress 
      in a long , brownish coat . -PRON- must have stay in the room some little 
      time after the murder , for -PRON- find blood - stain water in the basin , 
      where -PRON- have wash -PRON- hand , and mark on the sheet where -PRON- have 
      deliberately wipe -PRON- knife . " 

      -PRON- glance at Holmes on hear the description of the murderer , which 
      tally so exactly with -PRON- own . there be , however , no trace of 
      exultation or satisfaction upon -PRON- face . 

      " do -PRON- find nothing in the room which could furnish a clue to the 
      murderer ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " nothing . Stangerson have Drebber 's purse in -PRON- pocket , but -PRON- seem 
      that this be usual , as -PRON- do all the paying . there be eighty odd 
      pound in -PRON- , but nothing have be take . whatever the motive of 
      these extraordinary crime , robbery be certainly not one of -PRON- . 
      there be no paper or memorandum in the murdered man 's pocket , 
      except a single telegram , date from Cleveland about a month ago , and 
      contain the word , ' J. H. be in Europe . ' there be no name 
      append to this message . " 

      " and there be nothing else ? " Holmes ask . 

      " nothing of any importance . the man 's novel , with which -PRON- have read 
      -PRON- to sleep be lie upon the bed , and -PRON- pipe be on a chair 
      beside -PRON- . there be a glass of water on the table , and on the 
      window - sill a small chip ointment box contain a couple of pill . " 

      Sherlock Holmes spring from -PRON- chair with an exclamation of delight . 

      " the last link , " -PRON- cry , exultantly . " -PRON- case be complete . " 

      the two detective stare at -PRON- in amazement . 

      " -PRON- have now in -PRON- hand , " -PRON- companion say , confidently , " all the 
      thread which have form such a tangle . there be , of course , 
      detail to be fill in , but -PRON- be as certain of all the main fact , 
      from the time that Drebber part from Stangerson at the station , up 
      to the discovery of the body of the latter , as if -PRON- have see -PRON- 
      with -PRON- own eye . -PRON- will give -PRON- a proof of -PRON- knowledge . Could -PRON- 
      lay -PRON- hand upon those pill ? " 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- , " say Lestrade , produce a small white box ; " -PRON- take 
      -PRON- and the purse and the telegram , intend to have -PRON- put in a 
      place of safety at the Police Station . -PRON- be the mere chance -PRON- 
      take these pill , for -PRON- be bind to say that -PRON- do not attach any 
      importance to -PRON- . " 

      " give -PRON- here , " say Holmes . " now , Doctor , " turn to -PRON- , " be 
      those ordinary pill ? " 

      -PRON- certainly be not . -PRON- be of a pearly grey colour , small , 
      round , and almost transparent against the light . " from -PRON- 
      lightness and transparency , -PRON- should imagine that -PRON- be soluble in 
      water , " -PRON- remark . 

      " precisely so , " answer Holmes . " now would -PRON- mind go down and 
      fetch that poor little devil of a terrier which have be bad so 
      long , and which the landlady want -PRON- to put out of -PRON- pain 
      yesterday . " 

      -PRON- go downstairs and carry the dog upstair in -PRON- arm . -PRON- be 
      labour breathing and glaze eye show that -PRON- be not far from 
      -PRON- end . indeed , -PRON- snow - white muzzle proclaim that -PRON- have already 
      exceed the usual term of canine existence . -PRON- place -PRON- upon a 
      cushion on the rug . 

      " -PRON- will now cut one of these pill in two , " say Holmes , and draw 
      -PRON- penknife -PRON- suit the action to the word . " one half -PRON- return 
      into the box for future purpose . the other half -PRON- will place in this 
      wine glass , in which be a teaspoonful of water . -PRON- perceive that -PRON- 
      friend , the Doctor , be right , and that -PRON- readily dissolve . " 

      " this may be very interesting , " say Lestrade , in the injure tone of 
      one who suspect that -PRON- be be laugh at , " -PRON- can not see , however , 
      what -PRON- have to do with the death of Mr. Joseph Stangerson . " 

      " Patience , -PRON- friend , patience ! -PRON- will find in time that -PRON- have 
      everything to do with -PRON- . -PRON- shall now add a little milk to make the 
      mixture palatable , and on present -PRON- to the dog -PRON- find that -PRON- 
      lap -PRON- up readily enough . " 

      as -PRON- speak -PRON- turn the content of the wine glass into a saucer 
      and place -PRON- in front of the terrier , who speedily lick -PRON- dry . 
      Sherlock Holmes ' earnest demeanour have so far convince -PRON- that -PRON- 
      all sit in silence , watch the animal intently , and expect some 
      startling effect . none such appear , however . the dog continue to 
      lie stretch upon the cushion , breathe in a laboured way , but 
      apparently neither the well nor the bad for -PRON- draught . 

      Holmes have take out -PRON- watch , and as minute follow minute without 
      result , an expression of the utmost chagrin and disappointment 
      appear upon -PRON- feature . -PRON- gnaw -PRON- lip , drum -PRON- finger 
      upon the table , and show every other symptom of acute impatience . 
      so great be -PRON- emotion , that -PRON- feel sincerely sorry for -PRON- , while 
      the two detective smile derisively , by no mean displease at this 
      check which -PRON- have meet . 

      " -PRON- can not be a coincidence , " -PRON- cry , at last springing from -PRON- 
      chair and pace wildly up and down the room ; " -PRON- be impossible that 
      -PRON- should be a mere coincidence . the very pill which -PRON- suspect in 
      the case of Drebber be actually find after the death of Stangerson . 
      and yet -PRON- be inert . what can -PRON- mean ? surely -PRON- whole chain of 
      reasoning can not have be false . -PRON- be impossible ! and yet this 
      wretched dog be none the bad . ah , -PRON- have -PRON- ! -PRON- have -PRON- ! " with a 
      perfect shriek of delight -PRON- rush to the box , cut the other pill in 
      two , dissolve -PRON- , add milk , and present -PRON- to the terrier . the 
      unfortunate creature 's tongue seem hardly to have be moisten in 
      -PRON- before -PRON- give a convulsive shiver in every limb , and lie as rigid 
      and lifeless as if -PRON- have be strike by lightning . 

      Sherlock Holmes draw a long breath , and wipe the perspiration from 
      -PRON- forehead . " -PRON- should have more faith , " -PRON- say ; " -PRON- ought to know 
      by this time that when a fact appear to be oppose to a long train 
      of deduction , -PRON- invariably prove to be capable of bear some 
      other interpretation . of the two pill in that box one be of the 
      most deadly poison , and the other be entirely harmless . -PRON- ought to 
      have know that before ever -PRON- see the box at all . " 

      this last statement appear to -PRON- to be so startling , that -PRON- could 
      hardly believe that -PRON- be in -PRON- sober sense . there be the dead 
      dog , however , to prove that -PRON- conjecture have be correct . -PRON- 
      seem to -PRON- that the mist in -PRON- own mind be gradually clear 
      away , and -PRON- begin to have a dim , vague perception of the truth . 

      " all this seem strange to -PRON- , " continue Holmes , " because -PRON- 
      fail at the beginning of the inquiry to grasp the importance of the 
      single real clue which be present to -PRON- . -PRON- have the good fortune 
      to seize upon that , and everything which have occur since then have 
      serve to confirm -PRON- original supposition , and , indeed , be the 
      logical sequence of -PRON- . hence thing which have perplex -PRON- and 
      make the case more obscure , have serve to enlighten -PRON- and to 
      strengthen -PRON- conclusion . -PRON- be a mistake to confound strangeness 
      with mystery . the most commonplace crime be often the most mysterious 
      because -PRON- present no new or special feature from which deduction 
      may be draw . this murder would have be infinitely more difficult 
      to unravel have the body of the victim be simply find lie in the 
      roadway without any of those outr and sensational accompaniment 
      which have render -PRON- remarkable . these strange detail , far from 
      make the case more difficult , have really have the effect of make 
      -PRON- less so . " 

      Mr. Gregson , who have listen to this address with considerable 
      impatience , could contain -PRON- no longer . " look here , Mr. Sherlock 
      Holmes , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- be all ready to acknowledge that -PRON- be a 
      smart man , and that -PRON- have -PRON- own method of work . -PRON- want 
      something more than mere theory and preach now , though . -PRON- be a 
      case of take the man . -PRON- have make -PRON- case out , and -PRON- seem -PRON- be 
      wrong . young Charpentier could not have be engage in this second 
      affair . Lestrade go after -PRON- man , Stangerson , and -PRON- appear that 
      -PRON- be wrong too . -PRON- have throw out hint here , and hint there , 
      and seem to know more than -PRON- do , but the time have come when -PRON- feel 
      that -PRON- have a right to ask -PRON- straight how much -PRON- do know of the 
      business . Can -PRON- name the man who do -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- can not help feel that Gregson be right , sir , " remark 
      lestrade . " -PRON- have both try , and -PRON- have both fail . -PRON- have 
      remark more than once since -PRON- have be in the room that -PRON- have 
      all the evidence which -PRON- require . surely -PRON- will not withhold -PRON- 
      any longer . " 

      " any delay in arrest the assassin , " -PRON- observe , " may give -PRON- 
      time to perpetrate some fresh atrocity . " 

      thus press by -PRON- all , Holmes show sign of irresolution . -PRON- 
      continue to walk up and down the room with -PRON- head sink on -PRON- 
      chest and -PRON- brow draw down , as be -PRON- habit when lose in 
      think . 

      " there will be no more murder , " -PRON- say at last , stop abruptly 
      and face -PRON- . " -PRON- can put that consideration out of the question . 
      -PRON- have ask -PRON- if -PRON- know the name of the assassin . -PRON- do . the mere 
      know of -PRON- name be a small thing , however , compare with the 
      power of lay -PRON- hand upon -PRON- . this -PRON- expect very shortly to do . 
      -PRON- have good hope of manage -PRON- through -PRON- own arrangement ; but -PRON- 
      be a thing which need delicate handling , for -PRON- have a shrewd and 
      desperate man to deal with , who be support , as -PRON- have have occasion 
      to prove , by another who be as clever as -PRON- . as long as this man 
      have no idea that anyone can have a clue there be some chance of 
      secure -PRON- ; but if -PRON- have the slight suspicion , -PRON- would change 
      -PRON- name , and vanish in an instant among the four million inhabitant 
      of this great city . without mean to hurt either of -PRON- feeling , 
      -PRON- be bind to say that -PRON- consider these man to be more than a match 
      for the official force , and that be why -PRON- have not ask -PRON- 
      assistance . if -PRON- fail -PRON- shall , of course , incur all the blame due to 
      this omission ; but that -PRON- be prepared for . at present -PRON- be ready to 
      promise that the instant that -PRON- can communicate with -PRON- without 
      endanger -PRON- own combination , -PRON- shall do so . " 

      Gregson and Lestrade seem to be far from satisfied by this 
      assurance , or by the depreciate allusion to the detective police . 
      the former have flush up to the root of -PRON- flaxen hair , while the 
      other 's beady eye glisten with curiosity and resentment . neither 
      of -PRON- have time to speak , however , before there be a tap at the 
      door , and the spokesman of the street Arabs , young Wiggins , 
      introduce -PRON- insignificant and unsavoury person . 

      " please , sir , " -PRON- say , touch -PRON- forelock , " -PRON- have the cab 
      downstairs . " 

      " good boy , " say Holmes , blandly . " why do not -PRON- introduce this 
      pattern at Scotland Yard ? " -PRON- continue , take a pair of steel 
      handcuff from a drawer . " see how beautifully the spring work . -PRON- 
      fasten in an instant . " 

      " the old pattern be good enough , " remark Lestrade , " if -PRON- can only 
      find the man to put -PRON- on . " 

      " very good , very good , " say Holmes , smile . " the cabman may as well 
      help -PRON- with -PRON- box . just ask -PRON- to step up , Wiggins . " 

      -PRON- be surprised to find -PRON- companion speak as though -PRON- be about 
      to set out on a journey , since -PRON- have not say anything to -PRON- about 
      -PRON- . there be a small portmanteau in the room , and this -PRON- pull out 
      and begin to strap . -PRON- be busily engage at -PRON- when the cabman 
      enter the room . 

      " just give -PRON- a help with this buckle , cabman , " -PRON- say , kneel 
      over -PRON- task , and never turn -PRON- head . 

      the fellow come forward with a somewhat sullen , defiant air , and put 
      down -PRON- hand to assist . at that instant there be a sharp click , 
      the jangling of metal , and Sherlock Holmes spring to -PRON- foot again . 

      " Gentlemen , " -PRON- cry , with flashing eye , " let -PRON- introduce -PRON- to 
      Mr. Jefferson Hope , the murderer of Enoch Drebber and of Joseph 
      Stangerson . " 

      the whole thing occur in a moment -- so quickly that -PRON- have no time 
      to realize -PRON- . -PRON- have a vivid recollection of that instant , of 
      Holmes ' triumphant expression and the ring of -PRON- voice , of the 
      cabman 's dazed , savage face , as -PRON- glare at the glitter 
      handcuff , which have appear as if by magic upon -PRON- wrist . for a 
      second or two -PRON- may have be a group of statue . then , with an 
      inarticulate roar of fury , the prisoner wrench -PRON- free from 
      Holmes 's grasp , and hurl -PRON- through the window . woodwork and 
      glass give way before -PRON- ; but before -PRON- get quite through , Gregson , 
      Lestrade , and Holmes spring upon -PRON- like so many staghound . -PRON- be 
      drag back into the room , and then commence a terrific conflict . 
      so powerful and so fierce be -PRON- , that the four of -PRON- be shake off 
      again and again . -PRON- appear to have the convulsive strength of a man 
      in an epileptic fit . -PRON- face and hand be terribly mangle by -PRON- 
      passage through the glass , but loss of blood have no effect in 
      diminish -PRON- resistance . -PRON- be not until Lestrade succeed in 
      get -PRON- hand inside -PRON- neckcloth and half - strangle -PRON- that -PRON- 
      make -PRON- realize that -PRON- struggle be of no avail ; and even then 
      -PRON- feel no security until -PRON- have pinion -PRON- foot as well as -PRON- 
      hand . that do , -PRON- rise to -PRON- foot breathless and panting . 

      " -PRON- have -PRON- cab , " say Sherlock Holmes . " -PRON- will serve to take -PRON- 
      to Scotland Yard . and now , gentleman , " -PRON- continue , with a pleasant 
      smile , " -PRON- have reach the end of -PRON- little mystery . -PRON- be very 
      welcome to put any question that -PRON- like to -PRON- now , and there be no 
      danger that -PRON- will refuse to answer -PRON- . " 









                                       PART II 

                            the Country of the saint . 





           CHAPTER -PRON- 
           on the Great Alkali Plain 


      in the central portion of the great North American Continent there 
      lie an arid and repulsive desert , which for many a long year serve 
      as a barrier against the advance of civilisation . from the Sierra 
      Nevada to Nebraska , and from the Yellowstone River in the north to 
      the Colorado upon the south , be a region of desolation and silence . 
      nor be nature always in one mood throughout this grim district . -PRON- 
      comprise snow - cap and lofty mountain , and dark and gloomy 
      valley . there be swift - flow river which dash through jagged 
      caon ; and there be enormous plain , which in winter be white with 
      snow , and in summer be grey with the saline alkali dust . -PRON- all 
      preserve , however , the common characteristic of barrenness , 
      inhospitality , and misery . 

      there be no inhabitant of this land of despair . a band of Pawnees 
      or of Blackfeet may occasionally traverse -PRON- in order to reach other 
      hunting - ground , but the hardy of the brave be glad to lose 
      sight of those awesome plain , and to find -PRON- once more upon 
      -PRON- prairie . the coyote skulk among the scrub , the buzzard flap 
      heavily through the air , and the clumsy grizzly bear lumber through 
      the dark ravine , and pick up such sustenance as -PRON- can amongst the 
      rock . these be the sole dweller in the wilderness . 

      in the whole world there can be no more dreary view than that from 
      the northern slope of the Sierra Blanco . as far as the eye can reach 
      stretch the great flat plain - land , all dust over with patch of 
      alkali , and intersect by clump of the dwarfish chaparral bush . 
      on the extreme verge of the horizon lie a long chain of mountain 
      peak , with -PRON- rugged summit fleck with snow . in this great 
      stretch of country there be no sign of life , nor of anything 
      appertain to life . there be no bird in the steel - blue heaven , no 
      movement upon the dull , grey earth -- above all , there be absolute 
      silence . listen as one may , there be no shadow of a sound in all that 
      mighty wilderness ; nothing but silence -- complete and heart - subdue 
      silence . 

      -PRON- have be say there be nothing appertain to life upon the broad 
      plain . that be hardly true . look down from the Sierra Blanco , one 
      see a pathway trace out across the desert , which wind away and be 
      lose in the extreme distance . -PRON- be rut with wheel and trodden 
      down by the foot of many adventurer . here and there there be 
      scatter white object which glisten in the sun , and stand out 
      against the dull deposit of alkali . approach , and examine -PRON- ! -PRON- 
      be bone : some large and coarse , other small and more delicate . 
      the former have belong to oxen , and the latter to man . for fifteen 
      hundred mile one may trace this ghastly caravan route by these 
      scatter remain of those who have fall by the wayside . 

      look down on this very scene , there stand upon the fourth of May , 
      eighteen hundred and forty - seven , a solitary traveller . -PRON- 
      appearance be such that -PRON- may have be the very genius or demon 
      of the region . an observer would have find -PRON- difficult to say 
      whether -PRON- be near to forty or to sixty . -PRON- face be lean and 
      haggard , and the brown parchment - like skin be draw tightly over the 
      project bone ; -PRON- long , brown hair and beard be all flecked and 
      dash with white ; -PRON- eye be sink in -PRON- head , and burn with 
      an unnatural lustre ; while the hand which grasp -PRON- rifle be 
      hardly more fleshy than that of a skeleton . as -PRON- stand , -PRON- lean 
      upon -PRON- weapon for support , and yet -PRON- tall figure and the massive 
      framework of -PRON- bone suggest a wiry and vigorous constitution . 
      -PRON- gaunt face , however , and -PRON- clothe , which hang so baggily over 
      -PRON- shrivel limb , proclaim what -PRON- be that give -PRON- that 
      senile and decrepit appearance . the man be die -- die from hunger 
      and from thirst . 

      -PRON- have toil painfully down the ravine , and on to this little 
      elevation , in the vain hope of see some sign of water . now the 
      great salt plain stretch before -PRON- eye , and the distant belt of 
      savage mountain , without a sign anywhere of plant or tree , which 
      may indicate the presence of moisture . in all that broad landscape 
      there be no gleam of hope . North , and east , and west -PRON- look with 
      wild questioning eye , and then -PRON- realise that -PRON- wandering have 
      come to an end , and that there , on that barren crag , -PRON- be about to 
      die . " why not here , as well as in a feather bed , twenty year hence , " 
      -PRON- mutter , as -PRON- seat -PRON- in the shelter of a boulder . 

      before sit down , -PRON- have deposit upon the ground -PRON- useless 
      rifle , and also a large bundle tie up in a grey shawl , which -PRON- have 
      carry slung over -PRON- right shoulder . -PRON- appear to be somewhat too 
      heavy for -PRON- strength , for in lower -PRON- , -PRON- come down on the 
      ground with some little violence . instantly there break from the grey 
      parcel a little moaning cry , and from -PRON- there protrude a small , 
      scared face , with very bright brown eye , and two little speckled , 
      dimpled fist . 

      " -PRON- have hurt -PRON- ! " say a childish voice reproachfully . 

      " have -PRON- though , " the man answer penitently , " -PRON- do not go for to do 
      -PRON- . " as -PRON- speak -PRON- unwrap the grey shawl and extricate a pretty 
      little girl of about five year of age , whose dainty shoe and smart 
      pink frock with -PRON- little linen apron all bespoke a mother 's care . 
      the child be pale and wan , but -PRON- healthy arm and leg show that 
      -PRON- have suffer less than -PRON- companion . 

      " how be -PRON- now ? " -PRON- answer anxiously , for -PRON- be still rub the 
      towsy golden curl which cover the back of -PRON- head . 

      " kiss -PRON- and make -PRON- well , " -PRON- say , with perfect gravity , shove 
      the injure part up to -PRON- . " that be what mother use to do . where be 
      mother ? " 

      " Mother be go . -PRON- guess -PRON- will see -PRON- before long . " 

      " go , eh ! " say the little girl . " funny , -PRON- do not say good - bye ; 
      -PRON- ' most always do if -PRON- be just go over to Auntie 's for tea , 
      and now -PRON- be be away three day . say , -PRON- be awful dry , be not -PRON- ? 
      be not there no water , nor nothing to eat ? " 

      " no , there be not nothing , dearie . -PRON- will just need to be patient 
      awhile , and then -PRON- will be all right . put -PRON- head up agin -PRON- like 
      that , and then -PRON- will feel bullier . -PRON- be not easy to talk when -PRON- 
      lip be like leather , but -PRON- guess -PRON- would best let -PRON- know how the card 
      lie . what be that -PRON- have get ? " 

      " pretty thing ! fine thing ! " cry the little girl enthusiastically , 
      hold up two glitter fragment of mica . " when -PRON- go back to 
      home -PRON- will give -PRON- to brother Bob . " 

      " -PRON- will see pretty thing than -PRON- soon , " say the man 
      confidently . " -PRON- just wait a bit . -PRON- be go to tell -PRON- 
      though -- -PRON- remember when -PRON- leave the river ? " 

      " oh , yes . " 

      " well , -PRON- reckon -PRON- would strike another river soon , d'ye see . but 
      there be something wrong ; compass , or map , or something , and -PRON- 
      do not turn up . water run out . just except a little drop for the 
      like of -PRON- and -- and-- " 

      " and -PRON- could not wash -PRON- , " interrupt -PRON- companion gravely , 
      stare up at -PRON- grimy visage . 

      " no , nor drink . and Mr. Bender , -PRON- be the fust to go , and then 
      Indian Pete , and then Mrs. McGregor , and then Johnny Hones , and then , 
      dearie , -PRON- mother . " 

      " then mother be a deader too , " cry the little girl drop -PRON- face 
      in -PRON- pinafore and sob bitterly . 

      " yes , -PRON- all go except -PRON- and -PRON- . then -PRON- think there be some 
      chance of water in this direction , so -PRON- heave -PRON- over -PRON- shoulder 
      and -PRON- tramp -PRON- together . -PRON- do not seem as though -PRON- have improve 
      matter . there be an almighty small chance for -PRON- now ! " 

      " do -PRON- mean that -PRON- be go to die too ? " ask the child , check 
      -PRON- sobs , and raise -PRON- tear - stain face . 

      " -PRON- guess that be about the size of -PRON- . " 

      " why do not -PRON- say so before ? " -PRON- say , laugh gleefully . " -PRON- 
      give -PRON- such a fright . why , of course , now as long as -PRON- die -PRON- will be 
      with mother again . " 

      " yes , -PRON- will , dearie . " 

      " and -PRON- too . -PRON- will tell -PRON- how awful good -PRON- have be . -PRON- will bet -PRON- 
      meet -PRON- at the door of Heaven with a big pitcher of water , and a lot 
      of buckwheat cake , hot , and toast on both side , like Bob and -PRON- 
      be fond of . how long will -PRON- be first ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know -- not very long . " the man 's eye be fix upon the 
      northern horizon . in the blue vault of the heaven there have appear 
      three little speck which increase in size every moment , so rapidly 
      do -PRON- approach . -PRON- speedily resolve -PRON- into three large 
      brown bird , which circle over the head of the two wanderer , and 
      then settle upon some rock which overlook -PRON- . -PRON- be 
      buzzard , the vulture of the west , whose come be the forerunner of 
      death . 

      " cock and hen , " cry the little girl gleefully , point at -PRON- 
      ill - omen form , and clap -PRON- hand to make -PRON- rise . " say , do 
      God make this country ? " 

      " of course -PRON- do , " say -PRON- companion , rather startle by this 
      unexpected question . 

      " -PRON- make the country down in Illinois , and -PRON- make the Missouri , " the 
      little girl continue . " -PRON- guess somebody else make the country in 
      these part . -PRON- be not nearly so well do . -PRON- forget the water and 
      the tree . " 

      " what would ye think of offer up prayer ? " the man ask 
      diffidently . 

      " -PRON- be not night yet , " -PRON- answer . 

      " -PRON- do not matter . -PRON- be not quite regular , but -PRON- will not mind that , -PRON- 
      bet . -PRON- say over -PRON- one that -PRON- use to say every night in the 
      waggon when -PRON- be on the Plains . " 

      " why do not -PRON- say some -PRON- ? " the child ask , with wonder 
      eye . 

      " -PRON- disremember -PRON- , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- hain't say none since -PRON- be 
      half the height o ' that gun . -PRON- guess -PRON- be never too late . -PRON- say 
      -PRON- out , and -PRON- will stand by and come in on the chorus . " 

      " then -PRON- will need to kneel down , and -PRON- too , " -PRON- say , lay the 
      shawl out for that purpose . " -PRON- have get to put -PRON- hand up like 
      this . -PRON- make -PRON- feel kind o ' good . " 

      -PRON- be a strange sight have there be anything but the buzzard to 
      see -PRON- . side by side on the narrow shawl knelt the two wanderer , the 
      little prattle child and the reckless , harden adventurer . -PRON- 
      chubby face , and -PRON- haggard , angular visage be both turn up to 
      the cloudless heaven in heartfelt entreaty to that dread be with 
      whom -PRON- be face to face , while the two voice -- the one thin and 
      clear , the other deep and harsh -- united in the entreaty for mercy and 
      forgiveness . the prayer finish , -PRON- resume -PRON- seat in the 
      shadow of the boulder until the child fall asleep , nestle upon the 
      broad breast of -PRON- protector . -PRON- watch over -PRON- slumber for some 
      time , but Nature prove to be too strong for -PRON- . for three day and 
      three night -PRON- have allow -PRON- neither rest nor repose . slowly 
      the eyelid droop over the tired eye , and the head sink lower and 
      low upon the breast , until the man 's grizzle beard be mixed with 
      the gold tress of -PRON- companion , and both sleep the same deep and 
      dreamless slumber . 

      have the wanderer remain awake for another half hour a strange sight 
      would have meet -PRON- eye . far away on the extreme verge of the alkali 
      plain there rise up a little spray of dust , very slight at first , and 
      hardly to be distinguish from the mist of the distance , but 
      gradually grow high and broad until -PRON- form a solid , 
      well - define cloud . this cloud continue to increase in size until -PRON- 
      become evident that -PRON- could only be raise by a great multitude of 
      move creature . in more fertile spot the observer would have come 
      to the conclusion that one of those great herd of bison which graze 
      upon the prairie land be approach -PRON- . this be obviously 
      impossible in these arid wild . as the whirl of dust draw near to 
      the solitary bluff upon which the two castaway be repose , the 
      canvas - cover tilt of waggon and the figure of armed horseman 
      begin to show up through the haze , and the apparition reveal -PRON- 
      as be a great caravan upon -PRON- journey for the West . but what a 
      caravan ! when the head of -PRON- have reach the base of the mountain , 
      the rear be not yet visible on the horizon . right across the 
      enormous plain stretch the straggle array , waggon and cart , man 
      on horseback , and man on foot . innumerable woman who stagger along 
      under burden , and child who toddle beside the waggon or peep 
      out from under the white covering . this be evidently no ordinary 
      party of immigrant , but rather some nomad people who have be 
      compel from stress of circumstance to seek -PRON- a new 
      country . there rise through the clear air a confused clattering and 
      rumble from this great mass of humanity , with the creaking of 
      wheel and the neighing of horse . loud as -PRON- be , -PRON- be not 
      sufficient to rouse the two tired wayfarer above -PRON- . 

      at the head of the column there ride a score or more of grave 
      ironface man , clothe in sombre homespun garment and arm with 
      rifle . on reach the base of the bluff -PRON- halt , and hold a 
      short council among -PRON- . 

      " the well be to the right , -PRON- brother , " say one , a hard - lipped , 
      clean - shaven man with grizzly hair . 

      " to the right of the Sierra Blanco -- so -PRON- shall reach the Rio 
      Grande , " say another . 

      " fear not for water , " cry a third . " -PRON- who could draw -PRON- from the 
      rock will not now abandon -PRON- own choose people . " 

      " amen ! amen ! " respond the whole party . 

      -PRON- be about to resume -PRON- journey when one of the young and 
      keenest - eyed utter an exclamation and point up at the rugged crag 
      above -PRON- . from -PRON- summit there flutter a little wisp of pink , 
      show up hard and bright against the grey rock behind . at the 
      sight there be a general reining up of horse and unslinging of 
      gun , while fresh horseman come gallop up to reinforce the 
      vanguard . the word " redskin " be on every lip . 

      " there can not be any number of Injuns here , " say the elderly man who 
      appear to be in command . " -PRON- have pass the Pawnees , and there be 
      no other tribe until -PRON- cross the great mountain . " 

      " Shall -PRON- go forward and see , Brother Stangerson , " ask one of the 
      band . 

      " and -PRON- , " " and -PRON- , " cry a dozen voice . 

      " leave -PRON- horse below and -PRON- will await -PRON- here , " the Elder 
      answer . in a moment the young fellow have dismount , fasten 
      -PRON- horse , and be ascend the precipitous slope which lead up 
      to the object which have excite -PRON- curiosity . -PRON- advance 
      rapidly and noiselessly , with the confidence and dexterity of 
      practise scout . the watcher from the plain below could see -PRON- 
      flit from rock to rock until -PRON- figure stand out against the 
      skyline . the young man who have first give the alarm be lead 
      -PRON- . suddenly -PRON- follower see -PRON- throw up -PRON- hand , as though 
      overcome with astonishment , and on join -PRON- -PRON- be affect in 
      the same way by the sight which meet -PRON- eye . 

      on the little plateau which crown the barren hill there stand a 
      single giant boulder , and against this boulder there lie a tall man , 
      long - bearded and hard - featured , but of an excessive thinness . -PRON- 
      placid face and regular breathing show that -PRON- be fast asleep . 
      beside -PRON- lie a little child , with -PRON- round white arm encircle 
      -PRON- brown sinewy neck , and -PRON- golden haired head rest upon the 
      breast of -PRON- velveteen tunic . -PRON- rosy lip be part , show the 
      regular line of snow - white tooth within , and a playful smile play 
      over -PRON- infantile feature . -PRON- plump little white leg terminate 
      in white sock and neat shoe with shine buckle , offer a strange 
      contrast to the long shrivel member of -PRON- companion . on the 
      ledge of rock above this strange couple there stand three solemn 
      buzzard , who , at the sight of the new comer utter raucous scream 
      of disappointment and flap sullenly away . 

      the cry of the foul bird awoke the two sleeper who stare about 
      -PRON- in bewilderment . the man stagger to -PRON- foot and look down 
      upon the plain which have be so desolate when sleep have overtake 
      -PRON- , and which be now traverse by this enormous body of man and of 
      beast . -PRON- face assume an expression of incredulity as -PRON- gaze , 
      and -PRON- pass -PRON- boney hand over -PRON- eye . " this be what -PRON- call 
      delirium , -PRON- guess , " -PRON- mutter . the child stand beside -PRON- , hold 
      on to the skirt of -PRON- coat , and say nothing but look all round 
      -PRON- with the wonder questioning gaze of childhood . 

      the rescue party be speedily able to convince the two castaway 
      that -PRON- appearance be no delusion . one of -PRON- seize the little 
      girl , and hoist -PRON- upon -PRON- shoulder , while two other support 
      -PRON- gaunt companion , and assist -PRON- towards the waggon . 

      " -PRON- name be John Ferrier , " the wanderer explain ; " -PRON- and that 
      little un be all that be leave o ' twenty - one people . the rest be all 
      dead o ' thirst and hunger away down in the south . " 

      " be -PRON- -PRON- child ? " ask someone . 

      " -PRON- guess -PRON- be now , " the other cry , defiantly ; " -PRON- be mine because 
      -PRON- save -PRON- . no man will take -PRON- from -PRON- . -PRON- be Lucy Ferrier from 
      this day on . who be -PRON- , though ? " -PRON- continue , glance with 
      curiosity at -PRON- stalwart , sunburn rescuer ; " there seem to be a 
      powerful lot of ye . " 

      " nigh upon ten thousand , " say one of the young man ; " -PRON- be the 
      persecute child of God -- the choose of the Angel Merona . " 

      " -PRON- never hear tell on -PRON- , " say the wanderer . " -PRON- appear to have 
      choose a fair crowd of ye . " 

      " do not jest at that which be sacred , " say the other sternly . " -PRON- 
      be of those who believe in those sacred writing , draw in egyptian 
      letter on plate of beaten gold , which be hand unto the holy 
      Joseph Smith at Palmyra . -PRON- have come from Nauvoo , in the State of 
      Illinois , where -PRON- have found -PRON- temple . -PRON- have come to seek a 
      refuge from the violent man and from the godless , even though -PRON- be 
      the heart of the desert . " 

      the name of Nauvoo evidently recall recollection to John Ferrier . 
      " -PRON- see , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- be the Mormons . " 

      " -PRON- be the Mormons , " answer -PRON- companion with one voice . 

      " and where be -PRON- go ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know . the hand of God be lead -PRON- under the person of 
      -PRON- Prophet . -PRON- must come before -PRON- . -PRON- shall say what be to be 
      do with -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- have reach the base of the hill by this time , and be 
      surround by crowd of the pilgrim -- pale - faced meek - look woman , 
      strong laugh child , and anxious earnest - eyed man . many be the 
      cry of astonishment and of commiseration which arise from -PRON- when 
      -PRON- perceive the youth of one of the stranger and the destitution 
      of the other . -PRON- escort do not halt , however , but push on , 
      follow by a great crowd of mormon , until -PRON- reach a waggon , 
      which be conspicuous for -PRON- great size and for the gaudiness and 
      smartness of -PRON- appearance . six horse be yoke to -PRON- , whereas the 
      other be furnish with two , or , at most , four a - piece . beside the 
      driver there sit a man who could not have be more than thirty year 
      of age , but whose massive head and resolute expression mark -PRON- as 
      a leader . -PRON- be read a brown - back volume , but as the crowd 
      approach -PRON- lay -PRON- aside , and listen attentively to an account 
      of the episode . then -PRON- turn to the two castaway . 

      " if -PRON- take -PRON- with -PRON- , " -PRON- say , in solemn word , " -PRON- can only be 
      as believer in -PRON- own creed . -PRON- shall have no wolf in -PRON- fold . 
      better far that -PRON- bone should bleach in this wilderness than that 
      -PRON- should prove to be that little speck of decay which in time 
      corrupt the whole fruit . Will -PRON- come with -PRON- on these term ? " 

      " Guess -PRON- will come with -PRON- on any term , " say Ferrier , with such 
      emphasis that the grave Elders could not restrain a smile . the leader 
      alone retain -PRON- stern , impressive expression . 

      " take -PRON- , Brother Stangerson , " -PRON- say , " give -PRON- food and drink , 
      and the child likewise . let -PRON- be -PRON- task also to teach -PRON- -PRON- 
      holy creed . -PRON- have delay long enough . forward ! on , on to Zion ! " 

      " on , on to Zion ! " cry the crowd of mormon , and the word ripple 
      down the long caravan , pass from mouth to mouth until -PRON- die 
      away in a dull murmur in the far distance . with a cracking of whip 
      and a creaking of wheel the great waggon get into motion , and soon 
      the whole caravan be wind along once more . the Elder to whose 
      care the two waifs have be commit , lead -PRON- to -PRON- waggon , where 
      a meal be already await -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- shall remain here , " -PRON- say . " in a few day -PRON- will have 
      recover from -PRON- fatigue . in the meantime , remember that now and 
      forever -PRON- be of -PRON- religion . Brigham Young have say -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      have speak with the voice of Joseph Smith , which be the voice of 
      God . " 





           CHAPTER II 
           the Flower of Utah 


      this be not the place to commemorate the trial and privation 
      endure by the immigrant Mormons before -PRON- come to -PRON- final 
      haven . from the shore of the Mississippi to the western slope of 
      the Rocky Mountains -PRON- have struggle on with a constancy almost 
      unparalleled in history . the savage man , and the savage beast , 
      hunger , thirst , fatigue , and disease -- every impediment which Nature 
      could place in the way -- have all be overcome with Anglo - Saxon 
      tenacity . yet the long journey and the accumulate terror have shake 
      the heart of the stout among -PRON- . there be not one who do not 
      sink upon -PRON- knee in heartfelt prayer when -PRON- see the broad 
      valley of Utah bathe in the sunlight beneath -PRON- , and learn from 
      the lip of -PRON- leader that this be the promised land , and that 
      these virgin acre be to be theirs for evermore . 

      Young speedily prove -PRON- to be a skilful administrator as well 
      as a resolute chief . map be draw and chart prepare , in which 
      the future city be sketch out . all around farm be apportion 
      and allot in proportion to the standing of each individual . the 
      tradesman be put to -PRON- trade and the artisan to -PRON- calling . in the 
      town street and square spring up , as if by magic . in the country 
      there be drain and hedge , planting and clearing , until the next 
      summer see the whole country golden with the wheat crop . everything 
      prosper in the strange settlement . above all , the great temple 
      which -PRON- have erect in the centre of the city grow ever tall and 
      large . from the first blush of dawn until the closing of the 
      twilight , the clatter of the hammer and the rasp of the saw be never 
      absent from the monument which the immigrant erect to -PRON- who have 
      lead -PRON- safe through many danger . 

      the two castaway , John Ferrier and the little girl who have share 
      -PRON- fortune and have be adopt as -PRON- daughter , accompany the 
      Mormons to the end of -PRON- great pilgrimage . Little Lucy Ferrier be 
      bear along pleasantly enough in Elder Stangerson 's waggon , a retreat 
      which -PRON- share with the Mormon 's three wife and with -PRON- son , a 
      headstrong forward boy of twelve . have rally , with the elasticity 
      of childhood , from the shock cause by -PRON- mother 's death , -PRON- soon 
      become a pet with the woman , and reconcile -PRON- to this new life 
      in -PRON- move canvas - cover home . in the meantime Ferrier have 
      recover from -PRON- privation , distinguish -PRON- as a useful 
      guide and an indefatigable hunter . so rapidly do -PRON- gain the esteem 
      of -PRON- new companion , that when -PRON- reach the end of -PRON- 
      wandering , -PRON- be unanimously agree that -PRON- should be provide with 
      as large and as fertile a tract of land as any of the settler , with 
      the exception of Young -PRON- , and of Stangerson , Kemball , Johnston , 
      and Drebber , who be the four principal Elders . 

      on the farm thus acquire John Ferrier build -PRON- a substantial 
      log - house , which receive so many addition in succeed year that 
      -PRON- grow into a roomy villa . -PRON- be a man of a practical turn of mind , 
      keen in -PRON- dealing and skilful with -PRON- hand . -PRON- iron 
      constitution enable -PRON- to work morning and evening at improve and 
      till -PRON- land . hence -PRON- come about that -PRON- farm and all that 
      belong to -PRON- prosper exceedingly . in three year -PRON- be well 
      off than -PRON- neighbour , in six -PRON- be well - to - do , in nine -PRON- be 
      rich , and in twelve there be not half a dozen man in the whole of 
      Salt Lake City who could compare with -PRON- . from the great inland sea 
      to the distant Wahsatch Mountains there be no name better know than 
      that of John Ferrier . 

      there be one way and only one in which -PRON- offend the 
      susceptibility of -PRON- co - religionist . no argument or persuasion 
      could ever induce -PRON- to set up a female establishment after the 
      manner of -PRON- companion . -PRON- never give reason for this persistent 
      refusal , but content -PRON- by resolutely and inflexibly adhere 
      to -PRON- determination . there be some who accuse -PRON- of lukewarmness 
      in -PRON- adopted religion , and other who put -PRON- down to greed of 
      wealth and reluctance to incur expense . other , again , speak of some 
      early love affair , and of a fair - haired girl who have pine away on 
      the shore of the Atlantic . whatever the reason , Ferrier remain 
      strictly celibate . in every other respect -PRON- conform to the 
      religion of the young settlement , and gain the name of be an 
      orthodox and straight - walking man . 

      Lucy Ferrier grow up within the log - house , and assist -PRON- adopt 
      father in all -PRON- undertaking . the keen air of the mountain and the 
      balsamic odour of the pine tree take the place of nurse and mother 
      to the young girl . as year succeed to year -PRON- grow tall and 
      strong , -PRON- cheek more rudy , and -PRON- step more elastic . many a 
      wayfarer upon the high road which run by Ferrier 's farm feel 
      long - forget thought revive in -PRON- mind as -PRON- watch -PRON- 
      lithe girlish figure trip through the wheatfield , or meet -PRON- 
      mount upon -PRON- father 's mustang , and manage -PRON- with all the ease 
      and grace of a true child of the West . so the bud blossom into a 
      flower , and the year which see -PRON- father the rich of the farmer 
      leave -PRON- as fair a speciman of american girlhood as could be find in 
      the whole Pacific slope . 

      -PRON- be not the father , however , who first discover that the child 
      have develop into the woman . -PRON- seldom be in such case . that 
      mysterious change be too subtle and too gradual to be measure by 
      date . Least of all do the maiden -PRON- know -PRON- until the tone of 
      a voice or the touch of a hand set -PRON- heart thrill within -PRON- , 
      and -PRON- learn , with a mixture of pride and of fear , that a new and a 
      large nature have awake within -PRON- . there be few who can not recall 
      that day and remember the one little incident which herald the dawn 
      of a new life . in the case of Lucy Ferrier the occasion be serious 
      enough in -PRON- , apart from -PRON- future influence on -PRON- destiny and 
      that of many besides . 

      -PRON- be a warm June morning , and the Latter Day saint be as busy as 
      the bee whose hive -PRON- have choose for -PRON- emblem . in the field 
      and in the street rise the same hum of human industry . down the 
      dusty high road defile long stream of heavily - laden mule , all 
      head to the west , for the gold fever have break out in California , 
      and the Overland Route lie through the City of the Elect . there , too , 
      be drove of sheep and bullock come in from the outlying pasture 
      land , and train of tired immigrant , man and horse equally weary 
      of -PRON- interminable journey . through all this motley assemblage , 
      thread -PRON- way with the skill of an accomplished rider , there 
      gallop Lucy Ferrier , -PRON- fair face flush with the exercise and 
      -PRON- long chestnut hair float out behind -PRON- . -PRON- have a commission 
      from -PRON- father in the City , and be dash in as -PRON- have do many 
      a time before , with all the fearlessness of youth , think only of 
      -PRON- task and how -PRON- be to be perform . the travel - stain 
      adventurer gaze after -PRON- in astonishment , and even the unemotional 
      Indians , journey in with -PRON- peltie , relax -PRON- accustomed 
      stoicism as -PRON- marvel at the beauty of the pale - faced maiden . 

      -PRON- have reach the outskirt of the city when -PRON- find the road 
      block by a great drove of cattle , drive by a half - dozen 
      wild - look herdsman from the plain . in -PRON- impatience -PRON- 
      endeavour to pass this obstacle by push -PRON- horse into what 
      appear to be a gap . scarcely have -PRON- get fairly into -PRON- , however , 
      before the beast close in behind -PRON- , and -PRON- find -PRON- 
      completely imbed in the move stream of fierce - eyed , long - horn 
      bullock . Accustomed as -PRON- be to deal with cattle , -PRON- be not 
      alarm at -PRON- situation , but take advantage of every opportunity to 
      urge -PRON- horse on in the hope of push -PRON- way through the 
      cavalcade . unfortunately the horn of one of the creature , either by 
      accident or design , come in violent contact with the flank of the 
      mustang , and excite -PRON- to madness . in an instant -PRON- rear up upon 
      -PRON- hind leg with a snort of rage , and prance and toss in a way 
      that would have unseat any but a most skilful rider . the situation 
      be full of peril . every plunge of the excited horse bring -PRON- 
      against the horn again , and goad -PRON- to fresh madness . -PRON- be all 
      that the girl could do to keep -PRON- in the saddle , yet a slip 
      would mean a terrible death under the hoofs of the unwieldy and 
      terrified animal . unaccustomed to sudden emergency , -PRON- head begin 
      to swim , and -PRON- grip upon the bridle to relax . choke by the rise 
      cloud of dust and by the steam from the struggle creature , -PRON- 
      may have abandon -PRON- effort in despair , but for a kindly voice 
      at -PRON- elbow which assure -PRON- of assistance . at the same moment a 
      sinewy brown hand catch the frightened horse by the curb , and 
      force a way through the drove , soon bring -PRON- to the outskirt . 

      " -PRON- be not hurt , -PRON- hope , miss , " say -PRON- preserver , respectfully . 

      -PRON- look up at -PRON- dark , fierce face , and laugh saucily . " -PRON- be 
      awful frightened , " -PRON- say , naively ; " whoever would have think 
      that Poncho would have be so scare by a lot of cow ? " 

      " thank God -PRON- keep -PRON- seat , " the other say earnestly . -PRON- be a 
      tall , savage - look young fellow , mount on a powerful roan horse , 
      and clothe in the rough dress of a hunter , with a long rifle sling over 
      -PRON- shoulder . " -PRON- guess -PRON- be the daughter of John Ferrier , " -PRON- 
      remark , " -PRON- see -PRON- ride down from -PRON- house . when -PRON- see -PRON- , ask 
      -PRON- if -PRON- remember the Jefferson Hopes of St. Louis . if -PRON- be the 
      same Ferrier , -PRON- father and -PRON- be pretty thick . " 

      " have not -PRON- better come and ask -PRON- ? " -PRON- ask , demurely . 

      the young fellow seem pleased at the suggestion , and -PRON- dark eye 
      sparkle with pleasure . " -PRON- will do so , " -PRON- say , " -PRON- have be in the 
      mountain for two month , and be not over and above in visit 
      condition . -PRON- must take -PRON- as -PRON- find -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- have a good deal to thank -PRON- for , and so have -PRON- , " -PRON- answer , 
      " -PRON- be awful fond of -PRON- . if those cow have jump on -PRON- -PRON- would have 
      never get over -PRON- . " 

      " neither would -PRON- , " say -PRON- companion . 

      " -PRON- ! well , -PRON- do not see that -PRON- would make much matter to -PRON- , 
      anyhow . -PRON- be not even a friend of -PRON- . " 

      the young hunter 's dark face grow so gloomy over this remark that 
      Lucy Ferrier laugh aloud . 

      " there , -PRON- do not mean that , " -PRON- say ; " of course , -PRON- be a friend 
      now . -PRON- must come and see -PRON- . now -PRON- must push along , or father will not 
      trust -PRON- with -PRON- business any more . good - bye ! " 

      " good - bye , " -PRON- answer , raise -PRON- broad sombrero , and bend over 
      -PRON- little hand . -PRON- wheel -PRON- mustang round , give -PRON- a cut with 
      -PRON- riding - whip , and dart away down the broad road in a rolling 
      cloud of dust . 

      Young Jefferson Hope ride on with -PRON- companion , gloomy and 
      taciturn . -PRON- and -PRON- have be among the Nevada Mountains prospect 
      for silver , and be return to Salt Lake City in the hope of 
      raise capital enough to work some lode which -PRON- have discover . 
      -PRON- have be as keen as any of -PRON- upon the business until this 
      sudden incident have draw -PRON- thought into another channel . the 
      sight of the fair young girl , as frank and wholesome as the Sierra 
      breeze , have stir -PRON- volcanic , untamed heart to -PRON- very depth . 
      when -PRON- have vanish from -PRON- sight , -PRON- realize that a crisis have 
      come in -PRON- life , and that neither silver speculation nor any other 
      question could ever be of such importance to -PRON- as this new and 
      all - absorb one . the love which have spring up in -PRON- heart be not 
      the sudden , changeable fancy of a boy , but rather the wild , fierce 
      passion of a man of strong will and imperious temper . -PRON- have be 
      accustom to succeed in all that -PRON- undertake . -PRON- swear in -PRON- heart 
      that -PRON- would not fail in this if human effort and human perseverance 
      could render -PRON- successful . 

      -PRON- call on John Ferrier that night , and many time again , until -PRON- 
      face be a familiar one at the farm - house . John , coope up in the 
      valley , and absorb in -PRON- work , have have little chance of learn 
      the news of the outside world during the last twelve year . all this 
      Jefferson Hope be able to tell -PRON- , and in a style which interested 
      Lucy as well as -PRON- father . -PRON- have be a pioneer in California , and 
      could narrate many a strange tale of fortune make and fortune lose 
      in those wild , halcyon day . -PRON- have be a scout too , and a trapper , 
      a silver explorer , and a ranchman . wherever stir adventure be 
      to be have , Jefferson Hope have be there in search of -PRON- . -PRON- soon 
      become a favourite with the old farmer , who speak eloquently of -PRON- 
      virtue . on such occasion , Lucy be silent , but -PRON- blush cheek 
      and -PRON- bright , happy eye , show only too clearly that -PRON- young 
      heart be no longer -PRON- own . -PRON- honest father may not have observe 
      these symptom , but -PRON- be assuredly not throw away upon the man 
      who have win -PRON- affection . 

      -PRON- be a summer evening when -PRON- come gallop down the road and 
      pull up at the gate . -PRON- be at the doorway , and come down to meet 
      -PRON- . -PRON- throw the bridle over the fence and strode up the pathway . 

      " -PRON- be off , Lucy , " -PRON- say , take -PRON- two hand in -PRON- , and gaze 
      tenderly down into -PRON- face ; " -PRON- will not ask -PRON- to come with -PRON- now , 
      but will -PRON- be ready to come when -PRON- be here again ? " 

      " and when will that be ? " -PRON- ask , blush and laughing . 

      " a couple of month at the outside . -PRON- will come and claim -PRON- then , 
      -PRON- darling . there be no one who can stand between -PRON- . " 

      " and how about father ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- have give -PRON- consent , provide -PRON- get these mine work all 
      right . -PRON- have no fear on that head . " 

      " oh , well ; of course , if -PRON- and father have arrange -PRON- all , there be 
      no more to be say , " -PRON- whisper , with -PRON- cheek against -PRON- broad 
      breast . 

      " thank God ! " -PRON- say , hoarsely , stoop and kiss -PRON- . " -PRON- be 
      settle , then . the longer -PRON- stay , the hard -PRON- will be to go . -PRON- 
      be wait for -PRON- at the caon . good - bye , -PRON- own darling -- good - bye . 
      in two month -PRON- shall see -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- tear -PRON- from -PRON- as -PRON- speak , and , fling -PRON- upon -PRON- 
      horse , gallop furiously away , never even look round , as though 
      afraid that -PRON- resolution may fail -PRON- if -PRON- take one glance at 
      what -PRON- be leave . -PRON- stand at the gate , gaze after -PRON- until -PRON- 
      vanish from -PRON- sight . then -PRON- walk back into the house , the 
      happy girl in all Utah . 





           CHAPTER III 
           John Ferrier Talks with the Prophet 


      three week have pass since Jefferson Hope and -PRON- comrade have 
      depart from Salt Lake City . John Ferrier 's heart be sore within 
      -PRON- when -PRON- think of the young man 's return , and of the impending 
      loss of -PRON- adopt child . yet -PRON- bright and happy face reconcile 
      -PRON- to the arrangement more than any argument could have do . -PRON- have 
      always determine , deep down in -PRON- resolute heart , that nothing 
      would ever induce -PRON- to allow -PRON- daughter to -PRON- would a Mormon . such a 
      marriage -PRON- regard as no marriage at all , but as a shame and a 
      disgrace . whatever -PRON- may think of the Mormon doctrine , upon that 
      one point -PRON- be inflexible . -PRON- have to seal -PRON- mouth on the subject , 
      however , for to express an unorthodox opinion be a dangerous matter 
      in those day in the Land of the saint . 

      yes , a dangerous matter -- so dangerous that even the most saintly 
      dare only whisper -PRON- religious opinion with bated breath , lest 
      something which fall from -PRON- lip may be misconstrue , and bring 
      down a swift retribution upon -PRON- . the victim of persecution have 
      now turn persecutor on -PRON- own account , and persecutor of the 
      most terrible description . not the Inquisition of Seville , nor the 
      german Vehmgericht , nor the Secret Societies of Italy , be ever able 
      to put a more formidable machinery in motion than that which cast a 
      cloud over the State of Utah . 

      -PRON- invisibility , and the mystery which be attach to -PRON- , make this 
      organization doubly terrible . -PRON- appear to be omniscient and 
      omnipotent , and yet be neither see nor hear . the man who hold out 
      against the Church vanish away , and none know whither -PRON- have go 
      or what have befall -PRON- . -PRON- wife and -PRON- child await -PRON- at 
      home , but no father ever return to tell -PRON- how -PRON- have fare at 
      the hand of -PRON- secret judge . a rash word or a hasty act be 
      follow by annihilation , and yet none know what the nature may be 
      of this terrible power which be suspend over -PRON- . no wonder that 
      man go about in fear and tremble , and that even in the heart of 
      the wilderness -PRON- dare not whisper the doubt which oppress 
      -PRON- . 

      at first this vague and terrible power be exercise only upon the 
      recalcitrant who , have embrace the Mormon faith , wish 
      afterwards to pervert or to abandon -PRON- . soon , however , -PRON- take a 
      wide range . the supply of adult woman be run short , and 
      polygamy without a female population on which to draw be a barren 
      doctrine indeed . strange rumour begin to be bandy about -- rumour 
      of murdered immigrant and rifle camp in region where Indians have 
      never be see . fresh woman appear in the harem of the 
      elder -- woman who pine and weep , and bear upon -PRON- face the 
      trace of an unextinguishable horror . belate wanderer upon the 
      mountain speak of gang of armed man , mask , stealthy , and 
      noiseless , who flit by -PRON- in the darkness . these tale and 
      rumour take substance and shape , and be corroborate and 
      re - corroborate , until -PRON- resolve -PRON- into a definite name . 
      to this day , in the lonely ranch of the West , the name of the 
      Danite Band , or the Avenging Angels , be a sinister and an ill - omen 
      one . 

      fuller knowledge of the organization which produce such terrible 
      result serve to increase rather than to lessen the horror which -PRON- 
      inspire in the mind of man . none know who belong to this ruthless 
      society . the name of the participator in the deed of blood and 
      violence do under the name of religion be keep profoundly secret . 
      the very friend to whom -PRON- communicate -PRON- misgiving as to the 
      Prophet and -PRON- mission , may be one of those who would come forth 
      at night with fire and sword to exact a terrible reparation . hence 
      every man fear -PRON- neighbour , and none speak of the thing which 
      be near -PRON- heart . 

      one fine morning , John Ferrier be about to set out to -PRON- 
      wheatfield , when -PRON- hear the click of the latch , and , look 
      through the window , see a stout , sandy - haired , middle - aged man come 
      up the pathway . -PRON- heart leapt to -PRON- mouth , for this be none other 
      than the great Brigham Young -PRON- . full of trepidation -- for -PRON- 
      know that such a visit bode -PRON- little good -- Ferrier run to the door 
      to greet the Mormon chief . the latter , however , receive -PRON- 
      salutation coldly , and follow -PRON- with a stern face into the 
      sitting - room . 

      " Brother Ferrier , " -PRON- say , take a seat , and eye the farmer 
      keenly from under -PRON- light - colour eyelash , " the true believer 
      have be good friend to -PRON- . -PRON- pick -PRON- up when -PRON- be 
      starve in the desert , -PRON- share -PRON- food with -PRON- , lead -PRON- safe to 
      the Chosen Valley , give -PRON- a goodly share of land , and allow -PRON- 
      to wax rich under -PRON- protection . be not this so ? " 

      " -PRON- be so , " answer John Ferrier . 

      " in return for all this -PRON- ask but one condition : that be , that 
      -PRON- should embrace the true faith , and conform in every way to -PRON- 
      usages . this -PRON- promise to do , and this , if common report say 
      truly , -PRON- have neglect . " 

      " and how have -PRON- neglect -PRON- ? " ask Ferrier , throw out -PRON- hand 
      in expostulation . " have -PRON- not give to the common fund ? have -PRON- not 
      attend at the Temple ? have -PRON- not-- ? " 

      " where be -PRON- wife ? " ask Young , look round -PRON- . " call -PRON- 
      in , that -PRON- may greet -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be true that -PRON- have not marry , " Ferrier answer . " but woman 
      be few , and there be many who have well claim than I. -PRON- be not 
      a lonely man : -PRON- have -PRON- daughter to attend to -PRON- want . " 

      " -PRON- be of that daughter that -PRON- would speak to -PRON- , " say the leader 
      of the Mormons . " -PRON- have grow to be the flower of Utah , and have 
      find favour in the eye of many who be high in the land . " 

      John Ferrier groan internally . 

      " there be story of -PRON- which -PRON- would fain disbelieve -- story that 
      -PRON- be seal to some Gentile . this must be the gossip of idle 
      tongue . what be the thirteenth rule in the code of the saint 
      Joseph Smith ? ' let every maiden of the true faith marry one of the 
      elect ; for if -PRON- -PRON- would a Gentile , -PRON- commit a grievous sin . ' this 
      be so , -PRON- be impossible that -PRON- , who profess the holy creed , 
      should suffer -PRON- daughter to violate -PRON- . " 

      John Ferrier make no answer , but -PRON- play nervously with -PRON- 
      riding - whip . 

      " upon this one point -PRON- whole faith shall be test -- so -PRON- have be 
      decide in the Sacred Council of Four . the girl be young , and -PRON- 
      would not have -PRON- -PRON- would grey hair , neither would -PRON- deprive -PRON- of 
      all choice . -PRON- Elders have many heifers*1 , but -PRON- child must also 
      be provide . Stangerson have a son , and Drebber have a son , and either 
      of -PRON- would gladly welcome -PRON- daughter to -PRON- house . let -PRON- 
      choose between -PRON- . -PRON- be young and rich , and of the true faith . 
      what say -PRON- to that ? " 

      Ferrier remain silent for some little time with -PRON- brow knit . 

      " -PRON- will give -PRON- time , " -PRON- say at last . " -PRON- daughter be very 
      young -- -PRON- be scarce of an age to marry . " 

      " -PRON- shall have a month to choose , " say Young , rise from -PRON- seat . 
      " at the end of that time -PRON- shall give -PRON- answer . " 

      -PRON- be pass through the door , when -PRON- turn , with flushed face 
      and flash eye . " -PRON- be well for -PRON- , John Ferrier , " -PRON- 
      thunder , " that -PRON- and -PRON- be now lie blanch skeleton upon 
      the Sierra Blanco , than that -PRON- should put -PRON- weak will against 
      the order of the Holy Four ! " 

      with a threatening gesture of -PRON- hand , -PRON- turn from the door , and 
      Ferrier hear -PRON- heavy step scrunch along the shingly path . 

      -PRON- be still sit with -PRON- elbow upon -PRON- knee , consider how 
      -PRON- should broach the matter to -PRON- daughter when a soft hand be lay 
      upon -PRON- , and look up , -PRON- see -PRON- stand beside -PRON- . one glance 
      at -PRON- pale , frightened face show -PRON- that -PRON- have hear what have 
      pass . 

      " -PRON- could not help -PRON- , " -PRON- say , in answer to -PRON- look . " -PRON- voice 
      ring through the house . oh , father , father , what shall -PRON- do ? " 

      " do not -PRON- scare -PRON- , " -PRON- answer , draw -PRON- to -PRON- , and 
      pass -PRON- broad , rough hand caressingly over -PRON- chestnut hair . 
      " -PRON- will fix -PRON- up somehow or another . -PRON- do not find -PRON- fancy kind 
      o ' lessening for this chap , do -PRON- ? " 

      a sob and a squeeze of -PRON- hand be -PRON- only answer . 

      " no ; of course not . -PRON- should not care to hear -PRON- say -PRON- do . -PRON- be a 
      likely lad , and -PRON- be a Christian , which be more than these folk here , 
      in spite o ' all -PRON- pray and preaching . there be a party start 
      for Nevada to - morrow , and -PRON- will manage to send -PRON- a message let 
      -PRON- know the hole -PRON- be in . if -PRON- know anything o ' that young man , 
      -PRON- will be back here with a speed that would whip electro - telegraphs . " 

      Lucy laugh through -PRON- tear at -PRON- father 's description . 

      " when -PRON- come , -PRON- will advise -PRON- for the good . but -PRON- be for -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be frightened , dear . one hear -- one hear such dreadful 
      story about those who oppose the Prophet : something terrible always 
      happen to -PRON- . " 

      " but -PRON- have not oppose -PRON- yet , " -PRON- father answer . " -PRON- will be 
      time to look out for squall when -PRON- do . -PRON- have a clear month before 
      -PRON- ; at the end of that , -PRON- guess -PRON- have best shin out of Utah . " 

      " leave Utah ! " 

      " that be about the size of -PRON- . " 

      " but the farm ? " 

      " -PRON- will raise as much as -PRON- can in money , and let the rest go . to 
      tell the truth , Lucy , -PRON- be not the first time -PRON- have think of do 
      -PRON- . -PRON- do not care about knuckle under to any man , as these folk do 
      to -PRON- darn prophet . -PRON- be a free - bear American , and -PRON- be all new 
      to -PRON- . guess -PRON- be too old to learn . if -PRON- come browse about this 
      farm , -PRON- may chance to run up against a charge of buckshot 
      travel in the opposite direction . " 

      " but -PRON- will not let -PRON- leave , " -PRON- daughter object . 

      " wait till Jefferson come , and -PRON- will soon manage that . in the 
      meantime , do not -PRON- fret -PRON- , -PRON- dearie , and do not get -PRON- eye 
      swell up , else -PRON- will be walk into -PRON- when -PRON- see -PRON- . there be 
      nothing to be afeare about , and there be no danger at all . " 

      John Ferrier utter these consoling remark in a very confident 
      tone , but -PRON- could not help observe that -PRON- pay unusual care to 
      the fastening of the door that night , and that -PRON- carefully clean 
      and load the rusty old shotgun which hang upon the wall of -PRON- 
      bedroom . 

      ----- 
      * 1 : Heber C Kemball , in one of -PRON- sermon , allude to -PRON- hundred 
      wife under this endear epithet . 
     




           CHAPTER IV 
           a Flight for Life 


      on the morning which follow -PRON- interview with the Mormon Prophet , 
      John Ferrier go in to Salt Lake City , and have find -PRON- 
      acquaintance , who be bind for the Nevada Mountains , -PRON- entrust 
      -PRON- with -PRON- message to Jefferson Hope . in -PRON- -PRON- tell the young man 
      of the imminent danger which threaten -PRON- , and how necessary -PRON- 
      be that -PRON- should return . have do thus -PRON- feel easy in -PRON- 
      mind , and return home with a light heart . 

      as -PRON- approach -PRON- farm , -PRON- be surprised to see a horse hitched to 
      each of the post of the gate . still more surprised be -PRON- on 
      enter to find two young man in possession of -PRON- sitting - room . 
      one , with a long pale face , be lean back in the rocking - chair , 
      with -PRON- foot cock up upon the stove . the other , a bull - necked 
      youth with coarse bloated feature , be stand in front of the 
      window with -PRON- hand in -PRON- pocket , whistle a popular hymn . both 
      of -PRON- nod to Ferrier as -PRON- enter , and the one in the 
      rocking - chair commence the conversation . 

      " maybe -PRON- do not know -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " this here be the son of Elder 
      Drebber , and -PRON- be Joseph Stangerson , who travel with -PRON- in the 
      desert when the Lord stretch out -PRON- hand and gather -PRON- into the 
      true fold . " 

      " as -PRON- will all the nation in -PRON- own good time , " say the other in 
      a nasal voice ; " -PRON- grindeth slowly but exceed small . " 

      John Ferrier bow coldly . -PRON- have guess who -PRON- visitor be . 

      " -PRON- have come , " continue Stangerson , " at the advice of -PRON- father 
      to solicit the hand of -PRON- daughter for whichever of -PRON- may seem 
      good to -PRON- and to -PRON- . as -PRON- have but four wife and Brother Drebber 
      here have seven , -PRON- appear to -PRON- that -PRON- claim be the strong one . " 

      " Nay , nay , Brother Stangerson , " cry the other ; " the question be not 
      how many wife -PRON- have , but how many -PRON- can keep . -PRON- father have now 
      give over -PRON- mill to -PRON- , and -PRON- be the rich man . " 

      " but -PRON- prospect be well , " say the other , warmly . " when the Lord 
      remove -PRON- father , -PRON- shall have -PRON- tanning yard and -PRON- leather 
      factory . then -PRON- be -PRON- elder , and be high in the Church . " 

      " -PRON- will be for the maiden to decide , " rejoin young Drebber , 
      smirk at -PRON- own reflection in the glass . " -PRON- will leave -PRON- all to 
      -PRON- decision . " 

      during this dialogue , John Ferrier have stand fume in the doorway , 
      hardly able to keep -PRON- riding - whip from the back of -PRON- two 
      visitor . 

      " look here , " -PRON- say at last , stride up to -PRON- , " when -PRON- daughter 
      summon -PRON- , -PRON- can come , but until then -PRON- do not want to see -PRON- 
      face again . " 

      the two young Mormons stare at -PRON- in amazement . in -PRON- eye this 
      competition between -PRON- for the maiden 's hand be the high of 
      honour both to -PRON- and -PRON- father . 

      " there be two way out of the room , " cry Ferrier ; " there be the 
      door , and there be the window . which do -PRON- care to use ? " 

      -PRON- brown face look so savage , and -PRON- gaunt hand so threatening , 
      that -PRON- visitor spring to -PRON- foot and beat a hurried retreat . 
      the old farmer follow -PRON- to the door . 

      " let -PRON- know when -PRON- have settle which -PRON- be to be , " -PRON- say , 
      sardonically . 

      " -PRON- shall smart for this ! " Stangerson cry , white with rage . " -PRON- 
      have defy the Prophet and the Council of Four . -PRON- shall rue -PRON- to 
      the end of -PRON- day . " 

      " the hand of the Lord shall be heavy upon -PRON- , " cry young Drebber ; 
      " -PRON- will arise and smite -PRON- ! " 

      " then -PRON- will start the smiting , " exclaim Ferrier furiously , and would 
      have rush upstairs for -PRON- gun have not Lucy seize -PRON- by the arm 
      and restrain -PRON- . before -PRON- could escape from -PRON- , the clatter of 
      horse ' hoofs tell -PRON- that -PRON- be beyond -PRON- reach . 

      " the young canting rascal ! " -PRON- exclaim , wipe the perspiration 
      from -PRON- forehead ; " -PRON- would sooner see -PRON- in -PRON- grave , -PRON- girl , 
      than the wife of either of -PRON- . " 

      " and so should -PRON- , father , " -PRON- answer , with spirit ; " but Jefferson 
      will soon be here . " 

      " yes . -PRON- will not be long before -PRON- come . the sooner the well , for 
      -PRON- do not know what -PRON- next move may be . " 

      -PRON- be , indeed , high time that someone capable of give advice and 
      help should come to the aid of the sturdy old farmer and -PRON- adopt 
      daughter . in the whole history of the settlement there have never be 
      such a case of rank disobedience to the authority of the Elders . if 
      minor error be punish so sternly , what would be the fate of this 
      arch rebel . Ferrier know that -PRON- wealth and position would be of no 
      avail to -PRON- . other as well know and as rich as -PRON- have be 
      spirit away before now , and -PRON- good give over to the Church . 
      -PRON- be a brave man , but -PRON- tremble at the vague , shadowy terror 
      which hang over -PRON- . any know danger -PRON- could face with a firm lip , 
      but this suspense be unnerve . -PRON- conceal -PRON- fear from -PRON- 
      daughter , however , and affect to make light of the whole matter , 
      though -PRON- , with the keen eye of love , see plainly that -PRON- be ill at 
      ease . 

      -PRON- expect that -PRON- would receive some message or remonstrance from 
      Young as to -PRON- conduct , and -PRON- be not mistake , though -PRON- come in 
      an unlooked - for manner . upon rise next morning -PRON- find , to -PRON- 
      surprise , a small square of paper pin on to the coverlet of -PRON- 
      bed just over -PRON- chest . on -PRON- be print , in bold straggle 
      letters:-- 

      " twenty - nine day be give -PRON- for amendment , and then-- " 

      the dash be more fear - inspire than any threat could have be . how 
      this warning come into -PRON- room puzzle John Ferrier sorely , for -PRON- 
      servant sleep in an outhouse , and the door and window have all be 
      secure . -PRON- crumple the paper up and say nothing to -PRON- daughter , 
      but the incident strike a chill into -PRON- heart . the twenty - nine day 
      be evidently the balance of the month which Young have promise . 
      what strength or courage could avail against an enemy arm with such 
      mysterious power ? the hand which fasten that pin may have strike 
      -PRON- to the heart , and -PRON- could never have know who have slay -PRON- . 

      still more shaken be -PRON- next morning . -PRON- have sit down to -PRON- 
      breakfast when Lucy with a cry of surprise point upwards . in the 
      centre of the ceiling be scrawl , with a burn stick apparently , 
      the number 28 . to -PRON- daughter -PRON- be unintelligible , and -PRON- do not 
      enlighten -PRON- . that night -PRON- sit up with -PRON- gun and keep watch and 
      ward . -PRON- see and -PRON- hear nothing , and yet in the morning a great 27 
      have be paint upon the outside of -PRON- door . 

      thus day follow day ; and as sure as morning come -PRON- find that -PRON- 
      unseen enemy have keep -PRON- register , and have mark up in some 
      conspicuous position how many day be still leave to -PRON- out of the 
      month of grace . sometimes the fatal number appear upon the wall , 
      sometimes upon the floor , occasionally -PRON- be on small placard 
      stick upon the garden gate or the railing . with all -PRON- vigilance 
      John Ferrier could not discover whence these daily warning 
      proceed . a horror which be almost superstitious come upon -PRON- at 
      the sight of -PRON- . -PRON- become haggard and restless , and -PRON- eye have 
      the troubled look of some hunt creature . -PRON- have but one hope in 
      life now , and that be for the arrival of the young hunter from 
      Nevada . 

      twenty have change to fifteen and fifteen to ten , but there be no 
      news of the absentee . one by one the number dwindle down , and still 
      there come no sign of -PRON- . whenever a horseman clatter down the 
      road , or a driver shout at -PRON- team , the old farmer hurry to the 
      gate think that help have arrive at last . at last , when -PRON- see 
      five give way to four and that again to three , -PRON- lose heart , and 
      abandon all hope of escape . single - handed , and with -PRON- limited 
      knowledge of the mountain which surround the settlement , -PRON- know 
      that -PRON- be powerless . the more - frequent road be strictly 
      watch and guard , and none could pass along -PRON- without an order 
      from the Council . turn which way -PRON- would , there appear to be no 
      avoid the blow which hang over -PRON- . yet the old man never waver 
      in -PRON- resolution to part with life -PRON- before -PRON- consent to 
      what -PRON- regard as -PRON- daughter 's dishonour . 

      -PRON- be sit alone one evening ponder deeply over -PRON- trouble , 
      and search vainly for some way out of -PRON- . that morning have show 
      the figure 2 upon the wall of -PRON- house , and the next day would be 
      the last of the allot time . what be to happen then ? all manner of 
      vague and terrible fancy fill -PRON- imagination . and -PRON- 
      daughter -- what be to become of -PRON- after -PRON- be go ? be there no 
      escape from the invisible network which be draw all round -PRON- . -PRON- 
      sink -PRON- head upon the table and sob at the thought of -PRON- own 
      impotence . 

      what be that ? in the silence -PRON- hear a gentle scratching 
      sound -- low , but very distinct in the quiet of the night . -PRON- come from 
      the door of the house . Ferrier creep into the hall and listen 
      intently . there be a pause for a few moment , and then the low 
      insidious sound be repeat . someone be evidently tap very 
      gently upon one of the panel of the door . be -PRON- some midnight 
      assassin who have come to carry out the murderous order of the secret 
      tribunal ? or be -PRON- some agent who be mark up that the last day 
      of grace have arrive . John Ferrier feel that instant death would be 
      well than the suspense which shake -PRON- nerve and chill -PRON- 
      heart . spring forward -PRON- draw the bolt and throw the door open . 

      outside all be calm and quiet . the night be fine , and the star 
      be twinkle brightly overhead . the little front garden lie before 
      the farmer 's eye bound by the fence and gate , but neither there 
      nor on the road be any human being to be see . with a sigh of 
      relief , Ferrier look to right and to leave , until happen to 
      glance straight down at -PRON- own foot -PRON- see to -PRON- astonishment a man 
      lie flat upon -PRON- face upon the ground , with arm and leg all 
      asprawl . 

      so unnerved be -PRON- at the sight that -PRON- lean up against the wall 
      with -PRON- hand to -PRON- throat to stifle -PRON- inclination to call out . 
      -PRON- first thought be that the prostrate figure be that of some 
      wound or die man , but as -PRON- watch -PRON- -PRON- see -PRON- writhe along the 
      ground and into the hall with the rapidity and noiselessness of a 
      serpent . once within the house the man spring to -PRON- foot , close the 
      door , and reveal to the astonished farmer the fierce face and 
      resolute expression of Jefferson Hope . 

      " good God ! " gasp John Ferrier . " how -PRON- scare -PRON- ! whatever make 
      -PRON- come in like that . " 

      " give -PRON- food , " the other say , hoarsely . " -PRON- have have no time for 
      bite or sup for eight - and - forty hour . " -PRON- fling -PRON- upon the 
      cold meat and bread which be still lie upon the table from -PRON- 
      host 's supper , and devour -PRON- voraciously . " do Lucy bear up well ? " 
      -PRON- ask , when -PRON- have satisfy -PRON- hunger . 

      " yes . -PRON- do not know the danger , " -PRON- father answer . 

      " that be well . the house be watch on every side . that be why -PRON- 
      crawl -PRON- way up to -PRON- . -PRON- may be darn sharp , but -PRON- be not 
      quite sharp enough to catch a Washoe hunter . " 

      John Ferrier feel a different man now that -PRON- realize that -PRON- have a 
      devoted ally . -PRON- seize the young man 's leathery hand and wring -PRON- 
      cordially . " -PRON- be a man to be proud of , " -PRON- say . " there be not 
      many who would come to share -PRON- danger and -PRON- trouble . " 

      " -PRON- have hit -PRON- there , pard , " the young hunter answer . " -PRON- have a 
      respect for -PRON- , but if -PRON- be alone in this business -PRON- would think 
      twice before -PRON- put -PRON- head into such a hornet 's nest . -PRON- be Lucy that 
      bring -PRON- here , and before harm come on -PRON- -PRON- guess there will be 
      one less o ' the Hope family in Utah . " 

      " what be -PRON- to do ? " 

      " to - morrow be -PRON- last day , and unless -PRON- act to - night -PRON- be 
      lose . -PRON- have a mule and two horse wait in the Eagle Ravine . how 
      much money have -PRON- ? " 

      " two thousand dollar in gold , and five in note . " 

      " that will do . -PRON- have as much more to add to -PRON- . -PRON- must push for 
      Carson City through the mountain . -PRON- have best wake Lucy . -PRON- be as 
      well that the servant do not sleep in the house . " 

      while Ferrier be absent , prepare -PRON- daughter for the approach 
      journey , Jefferson Hope pack all the eatable that -PRON- could find 
      into a small parcel , and fill a stoneware jar with water , for -PRON- 
      know by experience that the mountain well be few and far between . 
      -PRON- have hardly complete -PRON- arrangement before the farmer return 
      with -PRON- daughter all dressed and ready for a start . the greeting 
      between the lover be warm , but brief , for minute be precious , 
      and there be much to be do . 

      " -PRON- must make -PRON- start at once , " say Jefferson Hope , speak in a 
      low but resolute voice , like one who realize the greatness of the 
      peril , but have steel -PRON- heart to meet -PRON- . " the front and back 
      entrance be watch , but with caution -PRON- may get away through the 
      side window and across the field . once on the road -PRON- be only two 
      mile from the Ravine where the horse be wait . by daybreak -PRON- 
      should be half - way through the mountain . " 

      " what if -PRON- be stop , " ask Ferrier . 

      Hope slap the revolver butt which protrude from the front of -PRON- 
      tunic . " if -PRON- be too many for -PRON- -PRON- shall take two or three of 
      -PRON- with -PRON- , " -PRON- say with a sinister smile . 

      the light inside the house have all be extinguish , and from the 
      darken window Ferrier peer over the field which have be -PRON- 
      own , and which -PRON- be now about to abandon for ever . -PRON- have long 
      nerve -PRON- to the sacrifice , however , and the thought of the 
      honour and happiness of -PRON- daughter outweigh any regret at -PRON- 
      ruin fortune . all look so peaceful and happy , the rustle tree 
      and the broad silent stretch of grain - land , that -PRON- be difficult to 
      realize that the spirit of murder lurk through -PRON- all . yet the 
      white face and set expression of the young hunter show that in -PRON- 
      approach to the house -PRON- have see enough to satisfy -PRON- upon that 
      head . 

      Ferrier carry the bag of gold and note , Jefferson Hope have the 
      scanty provision and water , while Lucy have a small bundle contain 
      a few of -PRON- more value possession . open the window very slowly 
      and carefully , -PRON- wait until a dark cloud have somewhat obscure 
      the night , and then one by one pass through into the little garden . 
      with bated breath and crouch figure -PRON- stumble across -PRON- , and 
      gain the shelter of the hedge , which -PRON- skirt until -PRON- come 
      to the gap which open into the cornfield . -PRON- have just reach 
      this point when the young man seize -PRON- two companion and drag 
      -PRON- down into the shadow , where -PRON- lie silent and tremble . 

      -PRON- be as well that -PRON- prairie training have give Jefferson Hope the 
      ear of a lynx . -PRON- and -PRON- friend have hardly crouch down before 
      the melancholy hooting of a mountain owl be hear within a few yard 
      of -PRON- , which be immediately answer by another hoot at a small 
      distance . at the same moment a vague shadowy figure emerge from the 
      gap for which -PRON- have be make , and utter the plaintive signal 
      cry again , on which a second man appear out of the obscurity . 

      " to - morrow at midnight , " say the first who appear to be in 
      authority . " when the Whip - poor - will call three time . " 

      " -PRON- be well , " return the other . " Shall -PRON- tell Brother Drebber ? " 

      " pass -PRON- on to -PRON- , and from -PRON- to the other . nine to seven ! " 

      " seven to five ! " repeat the other , and the two figure flit away 
      in different direction . -PRON- concluding word have evidently be 
      some form of sign and countersign . the instant that -PRON- footstep 
      have die away in the distance , Jefferson Hope spring to -PRON- foot , and 
      help -PRON- companion through the gap , lead the way across the field 
      at the top of -PRON- speed , support and half - carry the girl when 
      -PRON- strength appear to fail -PRON- . 

      " hurry on ! hurry on ! " -PRON- gasp from time to time . " -PRON- be through 
      the line of sentinel . everything depend on speed . hurry on ! " 

      once on the high road -PRON- make rapid progress . only once do -PRON- 
      meet anyone , and then -PRON- manage to slip into a field , and so avoid 
      recognition . before reach the town the hunter branch away into a 
      rugged and narrow footpath which lead to the mountain . two dark 
      jagged peak loom above -PRON- through the darkness , and the defile 
      which lead between -PRON- be the Eagle Caon in which the horse be 
      await -PRON- . with unerring instinct Jefferson Hope pick -PRON- way 
      among the great boulder and along the bed of a dry - up watercourse , 
      until -PRON- come to the retired corner , screen with rock , where the 
      faithful animal have be picket . the girl be place upon the 
      mule , and old Ferrier upon one of the horse , with -PRON- money - bag , 
      while Jefferson Hope lead the other along the precipitous and 
      dangerous path . 

      -PRON- be a bewilder route for anyone who be not accustom to face 
      nature in -PRON- wildest mood . on the one side a great crag tower up 
      a thousand foot or more , black , stern , and menacing , with long 
      basaltic column upon -PRON- rugged surface like the rib of some 
      petrified monster . on the other hand a wild chaos of boulder and 
      debris make all advance impossible . between the two run the irregular 
      track , so narrow in place that -PRON- have to travel in indian file , 
      and so rough that only practise rider could have traverse -PRON- at 
      all . yet in spite of all danger and difficulty , the heart of the 
      fugitive be light within -PRON- , for every step increase the 
      distance between -PRON- and the terrible despotism from which -PRON- be 
      fly . 

      -PRON- soon have a proof , however , that -PRON- be still within the 
      jurisdiction of the Saints . -PRON- have reach the very wild and 
      most desolate portion of the pass when the girl give a startled cry , 
      and point upwards . on a rock which overlook the track , show 
      out dark and plain against the sky , there stand a solitary sentinel . 
      -PRON- see -PRON- as soon as -PRON- perceive -PRON- , and -PRON- military challenge 
      of " who go there ? " ring through the silent ravine . 

      " Travellers for Nevada , " say Jefferson Hope , with -PRON- hand upon the 
      rifle which hang by -PRON- saddle . 

      -PRON- could see the lonely watcher finger -PRON- gun , and peer down 
      at -PRON- as if dissatisfy at -PRON- reply . 

      " by whose permission ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " the Holy Four , " answer Ferrier . -PRON- Mormon experience have teach 
      -PRON- that that be the high authority to which -PRON- could refer . 

      " nine from seven , " cry the sentinel . 

      " seven from five , " return Jefferson Hope promptly , remember the 
      countersign which -PRON- have hear in the garden . 

      " pass , and the Lord go with -PRON- , " say the voice from above . beyond 
      -PRON- post the path broaden out , and the horse be able to break 
      into a trot . look back , -PRON- could see the solitary watcher 
      lean upon -PRON- gun , and know that -PRON- have pass the outlying post 
      of the choose people , and that freedom lie before -PRON- . 





           CHAPTER V 
           the Avenging Angels 


      all night -PRON- course lie through intricate defile and over 
      irregular and rock - strew path . more than once -PRON- lose -PRON- way , 
      but Hope 's intimate knowledge of the mountain enable -PRON- to regain 
      the track once more . when morning break , a scene of marvellous though 
      savage beauty lie before -PRON- . in every direction the great 
      snow - cap peak hem -PRON- in , peep over each other 's shoulder 
      to the far horizon . so steep be the rocky bank on either side of 
      -PRON- , that the larch and the pine seem to be suspend over -PRON- 
      head , and to need only a gust of wind to come hurtle down upon 
      -PRON- . nor be the fear entirely an illusion , for the barren valley 
      be thickly strew with tree and boulder which have fall in a 
      similar manner . even as -PRON- pass , a great rock come thunder 
      down with a hoarse rattle which wake the echo in the silent gorge , 
      and startle the weary horse into a gallop . 

      as the sun rise slowly above the eastern horizon , the cap of the 
      great mountain light up one after the other , like lamp at a festival , 
      until -PRON- be all ruddy and glowing . the magnificent spectacle 
      cheer the heart of the three fugitive and give -PRON- fresh energy . 
      at a wild torrent which sweep out of a ravine -PRON- call a halt and 
      water -PRON- horse , while -PRON- partook of a hasty breakfast . Lucy 
      and -PRON- father would fain have rest longer , but Jefferson Hope be 
      inexorable . " -PRON- will be upon -PRON- track by this time , " -PRON- say . 
      " everything depend upon -PRON- speed . once safe in Carson -PRON- may rest 
      for the remainder of -PRON- life . " 

      during the whole of that day -PRON- struggle on through the defile , 
      and by evening -PRON- calculate that -PRON- be more than thirty mile 
      from -PRON- enemy . at night - time -PRON- choose the base of a beetling 
      crag , where the rock offer some protection from the chill wind , 
      and there huddle together for warmth , -PRON- enjoy a few hour ' 
      sleep . before daybreak , however , -PRON- be up and on -PRON- way once 
      more . -PRON- have see no sign of any pursuer , and Jefferson Hope 
      begin to think that -PRON- be fairly out of the reach of the terrible 
      organization whose enmity -PRON- have incur . -PRON- little know how far 
      that iron grasp could reach , or how soon -PRON- be to close upon -PRON- 
      and crush -PRON- . 

      about the middle of the second day of -PRON- flight -PRON- scanty store 
      of provision begin to run out . this give the hunter little 
      uneasiness , however , for there be game to be have among the 
      mountain , and -PRON- have frequently before have to depend upon -PRON- rifle 
      for the need of life . choose a sheltered nook , -PRON- pile together a 
      few dry branch and make a blaze fire , at which -PRON- companion 
      may warm -PRON- , for -PRON- be now nearly five thousand foot 
      above the sea level , and the air be bitter and keen . have tether 
      the horse , and bade Lucy adieu , -PRON- throw -PRON- gun over -PRON- shoulder , 
      and set out in search of whatever chance may throw in -PRON- way . 
      look back -PRON- see the old man and the young girl crouch over the 
      blaze fire , while the three animal stand motionless in the 
      back - ground . then the intervene rock hide -PRON- from -PRON- view . 

      -PRON- walk for a couple of mile through one ravine after another 
      without success , though from the mark upon the bark of the tree , 
      and other indication , -PRON- judge that there be numerous bear in 
      the vicinity . at last , after two or three hour ' fruitless search , -PRON- 
      be think of turn back in despair , when cast -PRON- eye 
      upwards -PRON- see a sight which send a thrill of pleasure through -PRON- 
      heart . on the edge of a jut pinnacle , three or four hundred foot 
      above -PRON- , there stand a creature somewhat resemble a sheep in 
      appearance , but arm with a pair of gigantic horn . the 
      big - horn -- for so -PRON- be call -- be act , probably , as a guardian 
      over a flock which be invisible to the hunter ; but fortunately -PRON- 
      be head in the opposite direction , and have not perceive -PRON- . 
      lie on -PRON- face , -PRON- rest -PRON- rifle upon a rock , and take a long 
      and steady aim before draw the trigger . the animal spring into the 
      air , totter for a moment upon the edge of the precipice , and then 
      come crash down into the valley beneath . 

      the creature be too unwieldy to lift , so the hunter content 
      -PRON- with cut away one haunch and part of the flank . with this 
      trophy over -PRON- shoulder , -PRON- hasten to retrace -PRON- step , for the 
      evening be already draw in . -PRON- have hardly start , however , 
      before -PRON- realize the difficulty which face -PRON- . in -PRON- eagerness 
      -PRON- have wander far past the ravine which be know to -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      be no easy matter to pick out the path which -PRON- have take . the 
      valley in which -PRON- find -PRON- divided and sub - divide into many 
      gorge , which be so like each other that -PRON- be impossible to 
      distinguish one from the other . -PRON- follow one for a mile or more 
      until -PRON- come to a mountain torrent which -PRON- be sure that -PRON- have 
      never see before . convinced that -PRON- have take the wrong turn , -PRON- 
      try another , but with the same result . night be come on rapidly , 
      and -PRON- be almost dark before -PRON- at last find -PRON- in a defile 
      which be familiar to -PRON- . even then -PRON- be no easy matter to keep to 
      the right track , for the moon have not yet rise , and the high cliff 
      on either side make the obscurity more profound . weigh down with 
      -PRON- burden , and weary from -PRON- exertion , -PRON- stumble along , keep 
      up -PRON- heart by the reflection that every step bring -PRON- nearer to 
      Lucy , and that -PRON- carry with -PRON- enough to ensure -PRON- food for the 
      remainder of -PRON- journey . 

      -PRON- have now come to the mouth of the very defile in which -PRON- have leave 
      -PRON- . even in the darkness -PRON- could recognize the outline of the 
      cliff which bound -PRON- . -PRON- must , -PRON- reflect , be await -PRON- 
      anxiously , for -PRON- have be absent nearly five hour . in the gladness 
      of -PRON- heart -PRON- put -PRON- hand to -PRON- mouth and make the glen re - echo 
      to a loud halloo as a signal that -PRON- be come . -PRON- pause and 
      listen for an answer . none come save -PRON- own cry , which clatter 
      up the dreary silent ravine , and be bear back to -PRON- ear in 
      countless repetition . again -PRON- shout , even loud than before , and 
      again no whisper come back from the friend whom -PRON- have leave such a 
      short time ago . a vague , nameless dread come over -PRON- , and -PRON- hurry 
      onwards frantically , drop the precious food in -PRON- agitation . 

      when -PRON- turn the corner , -PRON- come full in sight of the spot where 
      the fire have be light . there be still a glowing pile of wood ashe 
      there , but -PRON- have evidently not be tend since -PRON- departure . the 
      same dead silence still reign all round . with -PRON- fear all change 
      to conviction , -PRON- hurry on . there be no live creature near the 
      remain of the fire : animal , man , maiden , all be go . -PRON- be only 
      too clear that some sudden and terrible disaster have occur during 
      -PRON- absence -- a disaster which have embrace -PRON- all , and yet have leave 
      no trace behind -PRON- . 

      Bewildered and stun by this blow , Jefferson Hope feel -PRON- head 
      spin round , and have to lean upon -PRON- rifle to save -PRON- from 
      fall . -PRON- be essentially a man of action , however , and speedily 
      recover from -PRON- temporary impotence . seize a half - consume piece 
      of wood from the smouldering fire , -PRON- blow -PRON- into a flame , and 
      proceed with -PRON- help to examine the little camp . the ground be 
      all stamp down by the foot of horse , show that a large party of 
      mount man have overtake the fugitive , and the direction of -PRON- 
      track prove that -PRON- have afterwards turn back to Salt Lake City . 
      have -PRON- carry back both of -PRON- companion with -PRON- ? Jefferson 
      Hope have almost persuade -PRON- that -PRON- must have do so , when 
      -PRON- eye fall upon an object which make every nerve of -PRON- body tingle 
      within -PRON- . a little way on one side of the camp be a low - lie heap 
      of reddish soil , which have assuredly not be there before . there be 
      no mistake -PRON- for anything but a newly - dig grave . as the young 
      hunter approach -PRON- , -PRON- perceive that a stick have be plant on 
      -PRON- , with a sheet of paper stick in the cleft fork of -PRON- . the 
      inscription upon the paper be brief , but to the point : 

                                   JOHN FERRIER , 
                            formerly of Salt Lake City , 
                              die August 4th , 1860 . 
                                        

      the sturdy old man , whom -PRON- have leave so short a time before , be 
      go , then , and this be all -PRON- epitaph . Jefferson Hope look 
      wildly round to see if there be a second grave , but there be no 
      sign of one . Lucy have be carry back by -PRON- terrible pursuer to 
      fulfil -PRON- original destiny , by become one of the harem of the 
      Elder 's son . as the young fellow realize the certainty of -PRON- fate , 
      and -PRON- own powerlessness to prevent -PRON- , -PRON- wish that -PRON- , too , be 
      lie with the old farmer in -PRON- last silent resting - place . 

      again , however , -PRON- active spirit shake off the lethargy which 
      spring from despair . if there be nothing else leave to -PRON- , -PRON- could 
      at least devote -PRON- life to revenge . with indomitable patience and 
      perseverance , Jefferson Hope possess also a power of sustained 
      vindictiveness , which -PRON- may have learn from the Indians amongst 
      whom -PRON- have live . as -PRON- stand by the desolate fire , -PRON- feel that the 
      only one thing which could assuage -PRON- grief would be thorough and 
      complete retribution , bring by -PRON- own hand upon -PRON- enemy . -PRON- 
      strong will and untire energy should , -PRON- determine , be devoted to 
      that one end . with a grim , white face , -PRON- retrace -PRON- step to where 
      -PRON- have drop the food , and have stir up the smouldering fire , 
      -PRON- cook enough to last -PRON- for a few day . this -PRON- make up into a 
      bundle , and , tired as -PRON- be , -PRON- set -PRON- to walk back through the 
      mountain upon the track of the avenge angel . 

      for five day -PRON- toil footsore and weary through the defile which 
      -PRON- have already traverse on horseback . at night -PRON- fling -PRON- down 
      among the rock , and snatch a few hour of sleep ; but before 
      daybreak -PRON- be always well on -PRON- way . on the sixth day , -PRON- reach 
      the Eagle Caon , from which -PRON- have commence -PRON- ill - fate 
      flight . Thence -PRON- could look down upon the home of the saint . worn 
      and exhausted , -PRON- lean upon -PRON- rifle and shake -PRON- gaunt hand 
      fiercely at the silent widespread city beneath -PRON- . as -PRON- look at 
      -PRON- , -PRON- observe that there be flag in some of the principal 
      street , and other sign of festivity . -PRON- be still speculate as to 
      what this may mean when -PRON- hear the clatter of horse 's hoofs , and 
      see a mounted man ride towards -PRON- . as -PRON- approach , -PRON- recognize 
      -PRON- as a Mormon name Cowper , to whom -PRON- have render service at 
      different time . -PRON- therefore accost -PRON- when -PRON- get up to -PRON- , 
      with the object of find out what Lucy Ferrier 's fate have be . 

      " -PRON- be Jefferson Hope , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- remember -PRON- . " 

      the Mormon look at -PRON- with undisguised astonishment -- indeed , -PRON- 
      be difficult to recognize in this tattere , unkempt wanderer , with 
      ghastly white face and fierce , wild eye , the spruce young hunter of 
      former day . have , however , at last , satisfy -PRON- as to -PRON- 
      identity , the man 's surprise change to consternation . 

      " -PRON- be mad to come here , " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- be as much as -PRON- own life 
      be worth to be see talk with -PRON- . there be a warrant against -PRON- 
      from the Holy Four for assist the Ferriers away . " 

      " -PRON- do not fear -PRON- , or -PRON- warrant , " Hope say , earnestly . " -PRON- 
      must know something of this matter , Cowper . -PRON- conjure -PRON- by 
      everything -PRON- hold dear to answer a few question . -PRON- have always 
      be friend . for God 's sake , do not refuse to answer -PRON- . " 

      " what be -PRON- ? " the Mormon ask uneasily . " be quick . the very rock 
      have ear and the tree eye . " 

      " what have become of Lucy Ferrier ? " 

      " -PRON- be marry yesterday to young Drebber . hold up , man , hold up , 
      -PRON- have no life leave in -PRON- . " 

      " do not mind -PRON- , " say Hope faintly . -PRON- be white to the very lip , 
      and have sink down on the stone against which -PRON- have be lean . 
      " married , -PRON- say ? " 

      " married yesterday -- that be what those flag be for on the Endowment 
      House . there be some word between young Drebber and young 
      Stangerson as to which be to have -PRON- . -PRON- would both be in the party 
      that follow -PRON- , and Stangerson have shoot -PRON- father , which seem 
      to give -PRON- the good claim ; but when -PRON- argue -PRON- out in council , 
      Drebber 's party be the strong , so the Prophet give -PRON- over to 
      -PRON- . no one will not have -PRON- very long though , for -PRON- see death in -PRON- 
      face yesterday . -PRON- be more like a ghost than a woman . be -PRON- off , 
      then ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- be off , " say Jefferson Hope , who have rise from -PRON- seat . 
      -PRON- face may have be chisel out of marble , so hard and set be 
      -PRON- expression , while -PRON- eye glow with a baleful light . 

      " where be -PRON- go ? " 

      " never mind , " -PRON- answer ; and , sling -PRON- weapon over -PRON- 
      shoulder , stride off down the gorge and so away into the heart of the 
      mountain to the haunt of the wild beast . amongst -PRON- all there 
      be none so fierce and so dangerous as -PRON- . 

      the prediction of the Mormon be only too well fulfil . whether -PRON- 
      be the terrible death of -PRON- father or the effect of the hateful 
      marriage into which -PRON- have be force , poor Lucy never hold up -PRON- 
      head again , but pine away and die within a month . -PRON- sottish 
      husband , who have marry -PRON- principally for the sake of John 
      Ferrier 's property , do not affect any great grief at -PRON- 
      bereavement ; but -PRON- other wife mourn over -PRON- , and sit up with 
      -PRON- the night before the burial , as be the Mormon custom . -PRON- be 
      group round the bi in the early hour of the morning , when , to 
      -PRON- inexpressible fear and astonishment , the door be fling open , 
      and a savage - looking , weather - beat man in tattere garment stride 
      into the room . without a glance or a word to the cower woman , -PRON- 
      walk up to the white silent figure which have once contain the 
      pure soul of Lucy Ferrier . stoop over -PRON- , -PRON- press -PRON- lip 
      reverently to -PRON- cold forehead , and then , snatch up -PRON- hand , -PRON- 
      take the wedding - ring from -PRON- finger . " -PRON- shall not be bury in 
      that , " -PRON- cry with a fierce snarl , and before an alarm could be 
      raise sprang down the stair and be go . so strange and so brief 
      be the episode , that the watcher may have find -PRON- hard to 
      believe -PRON- -PRON- or persuade other people of -PRON- , have -PRON- not be 
      for the undeniable fact that the circlet of gold which mark -PRON- as 
      have be a bride have disappear . 

      for some month Jefferson Hope linger among the mountain , lead 
      a strange wild life , and nursing in -PRON- heart the fierce desire for 
      vengeance which possess -PRON- . Tales be tell in the City of the 
      weird figure which be see prowl about the suburb , and which 
      haunt the lonely mountain gorge . once a bullet whistle through 
      Stangerson 's window and flatten -PRON- upon the wall within a foot 
      of -PRON- . on another occasion , as Drebber pass under a cliff a great 
      boulder crash down on -PRON- , and -PRON- only escape a terrible death by 
      throw -PRON- upon -PRON- face . the two young Mormons be not long 
      in discover the reason of these attempt upon -PRON- life , and lead 
      repeat expedition into the mountain in the hope of capturing or 
      kill -PRON- enemy , but always without success . then -PRON- adopt 
      the precaution of never go out alone or after nightfall , and of 
      have -PRON- house guard . after a time -PRON- be able to relax 
      these measure , for nothing be either hear or see of -PRON- 
      opponent , and -PRON- hope that time have cool -PRON- vindictiveness . 

      far from do so , -PRON- have , if anything , augment -PRON- . the hunter 's 
      mind be of a hard , unyielding nature , and the predominant idea of 
      revenge have take such complete possession of -PRON- that there be no 
      room for any other emotion . -PRON- be , however , above all thing 
      practical . -PRON- soon realize that even -PRON- iron constitution could not 
      stand the incessant strain which -PRON- be put upon -PRON- . exposure and 
      want of wholesome food be wear -PRON- out . if -PRON- die like a dog 
      among the mountain , what be to become of -PRON- revenge then ? and yet 
      such a death be sure to overtake -PRON- if -PRON- persist . -PRON- feel that 
      that be to play -PRON- enemy 's game , so -PRON- reluctantly return to the 
      old Nevada mine , there to recruit -PRON- health and to amass money 
      enough to allow -PRON- to pursue -PRON- object without privation . 

      -PRON- intention have be to be absent a year at the most , but a 
      combination of unforeseen circumstance prevent -PRON- leave the 
      mine for nearly five . at the end of that time , however , -PRON- memory 
      of -PRON- wrong and -PRON- craving for revenge be quite as keen as on 
      that memorable night when -PRON- have stand by John Ferrier 's grave . 
      disguise , and under an assumed name , -PRON- return to Salt Lake City , 
      careless what become of -PRON- own life , as long as -PRON- obtain what -PRON- 
      know to be justice . there -PRON- find evil tiding await -PRON- . there 
      have be a schism among the Chosen People a few month before , some 
      of the young member of the Church have rebel against the 
      authority of the Elders , and the result have be the secession of a 
      certain number of the malcontent , who have leave Utah and become 
      gentile . among these have be Drebber and Stangerson ; and no one 
      know whither -PRON- have go . Rumour report that Drebber have manage 
      to convert a large part of -PRON- property into money , and that -PRON- have 
      depart a wealthy man , while -PRON- companion , Stangerson , be 
      comparatively poor . there be no clue at all , however , as to -PRON- 
      whereabout . 

      many a man , however vindictive , would have abandon all thought of 
      revenge in the face of such a difficulty , but Jefferson Hope never 
      falter for a moment . with the small competence -PRON- possess , eke 
      out by such employment as -PRON- could pick up , -PRON- travel from town to 
      town through the United States in quest of -PRON- enemy . year pass 
      into year , -PRON- black hair turn grizzle , but still -PRON- wander on , 
      a human bloodhound , with -PRON- mind wholly set upon the one object upon 
      which -PRON- have devote -PRON- life . at last -PRON- perseverance be reward . 
      -PRON- be but a glance of a face in a window , but that one glance tell 
      -PRON- that Cleveland in Ohio possess the man whom -PRON- be in pursuit 
      of . -PRON- return to -PRON- miserable lodging with -PRON- plan of vengeance 
      all arrange . -PRON- chance , however , that Drebber , look from -PRON- 
      window , have recognize the vagrant in the street , and have read murder 
      in -PRON- eye . -PRON- hurry before a justice of the peace , accompany by 
      Stangerson , who have become -PRON- private secretary , and represent to 
      -PRON- that -PRON- be in danger of -PRON- life from the jealousy and 
      hatred of an old rival . that evening Jefferson Hope be take into 
      custody , and not be able to find surety , be detain for some 
      week . when at last -PRON- be liberate , -PRON- be only to find that 
      Drebber 's house be desert , and that -PRON- and -PRON- secretary have 
      depart for Europe . 

      again the avenger have be foil , and again -PRON- concentrated hatred 
      urge -PRON- to continue the pursuit . fund be want , however , and 
      for some time -PRON- have to return to work , save every dollar for -PRON- 
      approach journey . at last , have collect enough to keep life in 
      -PRON- , -PRON- depart for Europe , and track -PRON- enemy from city to 
      city , work -PRON- way in any menial capacity , but never overtake 
      the fugitive . when -PRON- reach St. Petersburg -PRON- have depart for 
      Paris ; and when -PRON- follow -PRON- there -PRON- learn that -PRON- have just 
      set off for Copenhagen . at the danish capital -PRON- be again a few day 
      late , for -PRON- have journey on to London , where -PRON- at last succeed 
      in run -PRON- to earth . as to what occur there , -PRON- can not do 
      better than quote the old hunter 's own account , as duly record in 
      Dr. Watson 's Journal , to which -PRON- be already under such obligation . 





           CHAPTER VI 
           a Continuation of the Reminiscences of John Watson , M.D. 


      -PRON- prisoner 's furious resistance do not apparently indicate any 
      ferocity in -PRON- disposition towards -PRON- , for on find -PRON- 
      powerless , -PRON- smile in an affable manner , and express -PRON- hope 
      that -PRON- have not hurt any of -PRON- in the scuffle . " -PRON- guess -PRON- be go 
      to take -PRON- to the police - station , " -PRON- remark to Sherlock Holmes . 
      " -PRON- cab be at the door . if -PRON- will loose -PRON- leg -PRON- will walk down to -PRON- . 
      -PRON- be not so light to lift as -PRON- use to be . " 

      Gregson and Lestrade exchange glance as if -PRON- think this 
      proposition rather a bold one ; but Holmes at once take the prisoner 
      at -PRON- word , and loosen the towel which -PRON- have bind round -PRON- 
      ankle . -PRON- rise and stretch -PRON- leg , as though to assure -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be free once more . -PRON- remember that -PRON- think to -PRON- , 
      as -PRON- eye -PRON- , that -PRON- have seldom see a more powerfully build man ; 
      and -PRON- dark sunburned face bear an expression of determination and 
      energy which be as formidable as -PRON- personal strength . 

      " if there be a vacant place for a chief of the police , -PRON- reckon -PRON- 
      be the man for -PRON- , " -PRON- say , gaze with undisguised admiration at 
      -PRON- fellow - lodger . " the way -PRON- keep on -PRON- trail be a caution . " 

      " -PRON- have better come with -PRON- , " say Holmes to the two detective . 

      " -PRON- can drive -PRON- , " say Lestrade . 

      " good ! and Gregson can come inside with -PRON- . -PRON- too , Doctor , -PRON- have 
      take an interest in the case and may as well stick to -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- assent gladly , and -PRON- all descend together . -PRON- prisoner make 
      no attempt at escape , but step calmly into the cab which have be 
      -PRON- , and -PRON- follow -PRON- . Lestrade mount the box , whip up the 
      horse , and bring -PRON- in a very short time to -PRON- destination . -PRON- 
      be usher into a small chamber where a police inspector note down 
      -PRON- prisoner 's name and the name of the man with whose murder -PRON- have 
      be charge . the official be a white - faced unemotional man , who 
      go through -PRON- duty in a dull mechanical way . " the prisoner will 
      be put before the magistrate in the course of the week , " -PRON- say ; 
      " in the mean time , Mr. Jefferson Hope , have -PRON- anything that -PRON- 
      wish to say ? -PRON- must warn -PRON- that -PRON- word will be take down , and 
      may be use against -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- have get a good deal to say , " -PRON- prisoner say slowly . " -PRON- want to 
      tell -PRON- gentleman all about -PRON- . " 

      " have not -PRON- better reserve that for -PRON- trial ? " ask the Inspector . 

      " -PRON- may never be try , " -PRON- answer . " -PRON- need not look startled . -PRON- 
      be not suicide -PRON- be think of . be -PRON- a doctor ? " -PRON- turn -PRON- 
      fierce dark eye upon -PRON- as -PRON- ask this last question . 

      " yes ; -PRON- be , " -PRON- answer . 

      " then put -PRON- hand here , " -PRON- say , with a smile , motion with -PRON- 
      manacle wrist towards -PRON- chest . 

      -PRON- do so ; and become at once conscious of an extraordinary throbbing 
      and commotion which be go on inside . the wall of -PRON- chest 
      seem to thrill and quiver as a frail building would do inside when 
      some powerful engine be at work . in the silence of the room -PRON- could 
      hear a dull humming and buzzing noise which proceed from the same 
      source . 

      " why , " -PRON- cry , " -PRON- have an aortic aneurism ! " 

      " that be what -PRON- call -PRON- , " -PRON- say , placidly . " -PRON- go to a Doctor 
      last week about -PRON- , and -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- be bind to burst before 
      many day pass . -PRON- have be get bad for year . -PRON- get -PRON- from 
      over - exposure and under - feeding among the Salt Lake Mountains . -PRON- have 
      do -PRON- work now , and -PRON- do not care how soon -PRON- go , but -PRON- should like 
      to leave some account of the business behind -PRON- . -PRON- do not want to be 
      remember as a common cut - throat . " 

      the Inspector and the two detective have a hurried discussion as to 
      the advisability of allow -PRON- to tell -PRON- story . 

      " do -PRON- consider , Doctor , that there be immediate danger ? " the former 
      ask . 

      " most certainly there be , " -PRON- answer . 

      " in that case -PRON- be clearly -PRON- duty , in the interest of justice , to 
      take -PRON- statement , " say the Inspector . " -PRON- be at liberty , sir , to 
      give -PRON- account , which -PRON- again warn -PRON- will be take down . " 

      " -PRON- will sit down , with -PRON- leave , " the prisoner say , suit the 
      action to the word . " this aneurism of mine make -PRON- easily tired , and 
      the tussle -PRON- have half an hour ago have not mend matter . -PRON- be on the 
      brink of the grave , and -PRON- be not likely to lie to -PRON- . every word -PRON- 
      say be the absolute truth , and how -PRON- use -PRON- be a matter of no 
      consequence to -PRON- . " 

      with these word , Jefferson Hope lean back in -PRON- chair and begin 
      the following remarkable statement . -PRON- speak in a calm and methodical 
      manner , as though the event which -PRON- narrate be commonplace 
      enough . -PRON- can vouch for the accuracy of the subjoin account , for -PRON- 
      have have access to Lestrade 's note - book , in which the prisoner 's 
      word be take down exactly as -PRON- be utter . 

      " -PRON- do not much matter to -PRON- why -PRON- hate these man , " -PRON- say ; " -PRON- be 
      enough that -PRON- be guilty of the death of two human being -- a 
      father and a daughter -- and that -PRON- have , therefore , forfeit -PRON- 
      own life . after the lapse of time that have pass since -PRON- crime , 
      -PRON- be impossible for -PRON- to secure a conviction against -PRON- in any 
      court . -PRON- know of -PRON- guilt though , and -PRON- determine that -PRON- should 
      be judge , jury , and executioner all roll into one . -PRON- would have do 
      the same , if -PRON- have any manhood in -PRON- , if -PRON- have be in -PRON- 
      place . 

      " that girl that -PRON- speak of be to have marry -PRON- twenty year ago . 
      -PRON- be force into marry that same Drebber , and break -PRON- heart 
      over -PRON- . -PRON- take the marriage ring from -PRON- dead finger , and -PRON- vow 
      that -PRON- die eye should rest upon that very ring , and that -PRON- 
      last thought should be of the crime for which -PRON- be punish . -PRON- 
      have carry -PRON- about with -PRON- , and have follow -PRON- and -PRON- 
      accomplice over two continent until -PRON- catch -PRON- . -PRON- think to 
      tire -PRON- out , but -PRON- could not do -PRON- . if -PRON- die to - morrow , as be 
      likely enough , -PRON- die know that -PRON- work in this world be do , and 
      well do . -PRON- have perish , and by -PRON- hand . there be nothing leave 
      for -PRON- to hope for , or to desire . 

      " -PRON- be rich and -PRON- be poor , so that -PRON- be no easy matter for -PRON- 
      to follow -PRON- . when -PRON- get to London -PRON- pocket be about empty , and -PRON- 
      find that -PRON- must turn -PRON- hand to something for -PRON- living . drive 
      and riding be as natural to -PRON- as walk , so -PRON- apply at a 
      cabowner 's office , and soon get employment . -PRON- be to bring a certain 
      sum a week to the owner , and whatever be over that -PRON- may keep for 
      -PRON- . there be seldom much over , but -PRON- manage to scrape along 
      somehow . the hard job be to learn -PRON- way about , for -PRON- reckon that 
      of all the maze that ever be contrive , this city be the most 
      confusing . -PRON- have a map beside -PRON- though , and when once -PRON- have spot 
      the principal hotel and station , -PRON- get on pretty well . 

      " -PRON- be some time before -PRON- find out where -PRON- two gentleman be 
      live ; but -PRON- inquire and inquire until at last -PRON- drop across 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be at a boarding - house at Camberwell , over on the other 
      side of the river . when once -PRON- find -PRON- out -PRON- know that -PRON- have -PRON- 
      at -PRON- mercy . -PRON- have grow -PRON- beard , and there be no chance of -PRON- 
      recognize -PRON- . -PRON- would dog -PRON- and follow -PRON- until -PRON- see -PRON- 
      opportunity . -PRON- be determine that -PRON- should not escape -PRON- again . 

      " -PRON- be very near do -PRON- for all that . go where -PRON- would about 
      London , -PRON- be always at -PRON- heel . sometimes -PRON- follow -PRON- on -PRON- 
      cab , and sometimes on foot , but the former be the good , for then 
      -PRON- could not get away from -PRON- . -PRON- be only early in the morning or 
      late at night that -PRON- could earn anything , so that -PRON- begin to get 
      behind hand with -PRON- employer . -PRON- do not mind that , however , as long 
      as -PRON- could lay -PRON- hand upon the man -PRON- want . 

      " -PRON- be very cunning , though . -PRON- must have think that there 
      be some chance of -PRON- be follow , for -PRON- would never go out 
      alone , and never after nightfall . during two week -PRON- drive behind 
      -PRON- every day , and never once see -PRON- separate . Drebber -PRON- be 
      drunk half the time , but Stangerson be not to be catch nap . -PRON- 
      watch -PRON- late and early , but never see the ghost of a chance ; but 
      -PRON- be not discourage , for something tell -PRON- that the hour have almost 
      come . -PRON- only fear be that this thing in -PRON- chest may burst a 
      little too soon and leave -PRON- work undone . 

      " at last , one evening -PRON- be drive up and down Torquay Terrace , as 
      the street be call in which -PRON- board , when -PRON- see a cab drive 
      up to -PRON- door . presently some luggage be bring out , and after a 
      time Drebber and Stangerson follow -PRON- , and drive off . -PRON- whip up 
      -PRON- horse and keep within sight of -PRON- , feel very ill at ease , for 
      -PRON- fear that -PRON- be go to shift -PRON- quarter . at Euston 
      Station -PRON- get out , and -PRON- leave a boy to hold -PRON- horse , and follow 
      -PRON- on to the platform . -PRON- hear -PRON- ask for the Liverpool train , 
      and the guard answer that one have just go and there would not be 
      another for some hour . Stangerson seem to be put out at that , but 
      Drebber be rather pleased than otherwise . -PRON- get so close to -PRON- in 
      the bustle that -PRON- could hear every word that pass between -PRON- . 
      Drebber say that -PRON- have a little business of -PRON- own to do , and that 
      if the other would wait for -PRON- -PRON- would soon rejoin -PRON- . -PRON- 
      companion remonstrate with -PRON- , and remind -PRON- that -PRON- have 
      resolve to stick together . Drebber answer that the matter be a 
      delicate one , and that -PRON- must go alone . -PRON- could not catch what 
      Stangerson say to that , but the other burst out swear , and 
      remind -PRON- that -PRON- be nothing more than -PRON- pay servant , and that 
      -PRON- must not presume to dictate to -PRON- . on that the Secretary give -PRON- 
      up as a bad job , and simply bargain with -PRON- that if -PRON- miss the 
      last train -PRON- should rejoin -PRON- at Halliday 's Private Hotel ; to which 
      Drebber answer that -PRON- would be back on the platform before eleven , 
      and make -PRON- way out of the station . 

      " the moment for which -PRON- have wait so long have at last come . -PRON- have -PRON- 
      enemy within -PRON- power . together -PRON- could protect each other , but 
      singly -PRON- be at -PRON- mercy . -PRON- do not act , however , with undue 
      precipitation . -PRON- plan be already form . there be no satisfaction 
      in vengeance unless the offender have time to realize who -PRON- be that 
      strike -PRON- , and why retribution have come upon -PRON- . -PRON- have -PRON- plan 
      arrange by which -PRON- should have the opportunity of make the man who 
      have wrong -PRON- understand that -PRON- old sin have find -PRON- out . -PRON- 
      chance that some day before a gentleman who have be engage in 
      look over some house in the Brixton Road have drop the key of 
      one of -PRON- in -PRON- carriage . -PRON- be claim that same evening , and 
      return ; but in the interval -PRON- have take a moulding of -PRON- , and have a 
      duplicate construct . by mean of this -PRON- have access to at least one 
      spot in this great city where -PRON- could rely upon be free from 
      interruption . how to get Drebber to that house be the difficult 
      problem which -PRON- have now to solve . 

      " -PRON- walk down the road and go into one or two liquor shop , 
      stay for nearly half - an - hour in the last of -PRON- . when -PRON- come out 
      -PRON- stagger in -PRON- walk , and be evidently pretty well on . there be 
      a hansom just in front of -PRON- , and -PRON- hail -PRON- . -PRON- follow -PRON- so 
      close that the nose of -PRON- horse be within a yard of -PRON- driver the 
      whole way . -PRON- rattle across Waterloo Bridge and through mile of 
      street , until , to -PRON- astonishment , -PRON- find -PRON- back in the 
      Terrace in which -PRON- have board . -PRON- could not imagine what -PRON- 
      intention be in return there ; but -PRON- go on and pull up -PRON- cab 
      a hundred yard or so from the house . -PRON- enter -PRON- , and -PRON- hansom 
      drive away . give -PRON- a glass of water , if -PRON- please . -PRON- mouth get 
      dry with the talking . " 

      -PRON- hand -PRON- the glass , and -PRON- drink -PRON- down . 

      " that be well , " -PRON- say . " well , -PRON- wait for a quarter of an hour , 
      or more , when suddenly there come a noise like people struggle 
      inside the house . next moment the door be fling open and two man 
      appear , one of whom be Drebber , and the other be a young chap 
      whom -PRON- have never see before . this fellow have Drebber by the collar , 
      and when -PRON- come to the head of the step -PRON- give -PRON- a shove and a 
      kick which send -PRON- half across the road . ' -PRON- hound , ' -PRON- cry , 
      shake -PRON- stick at -PRON- ; ' -PRON- will teach -PRON- to insult an honest girl ! ' 
      -PRON- be so hot that -PRON- think -PRON- would have thrash Drebber with -PRON- 
      cudgel , only that the cur stagger away down the road as fast as -PRON- 
      leg would carry -PRON- . -PRON- run as far as the corner , and then , see 
      -PRON- cab , -PRON- hail -PRON- and jump in . ' drive -PRON- to Halliday 's Private 
      Hotel , ' say -PRON- . 

      " when -PRON- have -PRON- fairly inside -PRON- cab , -PRON- heart jump so with joy 
      that -PRON- fear lest at this last moment -PRON- aneurism may go wrong . -PRON- 
      drive along slowly , weigh in -PRON- own mind what -PRON- be good to do . -PRON- 
      may take -PRON- right out into the country , and there in some desert 
      lane have -PRON- last interview with -PRON- . -PRON- have almost decide upon this , 
      when -PRON- solve the problem for -PRON- . the craze for drink have seize -PRON- 
      again , and -PRON- order -PRON- to pull up outside a gin palace . -PRON- go in , 
      leave word that -PRON- should wait for -PRON- . there -PRON- remain until 
      closing time , and when -PRON- come out -PRON- be so far go that -PRON- know the 
      game be in -PRON- own hand . 

      " do not imagine that -PRON- intend to kill -PRON- in cold blood . -PRON- would 
      only have be rigid justice if -PRON- have do so , but -PRON- could not bring 
      -PRON- to do -PRON- . -PRON- have long determine that -PRON- should have a show for 
      -PRON- life if -PRON- choose to take advantage of -PRON- . among the many billet 
      which -PRON- have fill in America during -PRON- wander life , -PRON- be once 
      janitor and sweeper out of the laboratory at York College . one day 
      the professor be lecture on poison , and -PRON- show -PRON- student 
      some alkaloid , as -PRON- call -PRON- , which -PRON- have extract from some 
      south american arrow poison , and which be so powerful that the least 
      grain mean instant death . -PRON- spot the bottle in which this 
      preparation be keep , and when -PRON- be all go , -PRON- help -PRON- to 
      a little of -PRON- . -PRON- be a fairly good dispenser , so -PRON- work this 
      alkaloid into small , soluble pill , and each pill -PRON- put in a box with 
      a similar pill make without the poison . -PRON- determine at the time that 
      when -PRON- have -PRON- chance , -PRON- gentleman should each have a draw out of one 
      of these box , while -PRON- eat the pill that remain . -PRON- would be quite 
      as deadly , and a good deal less noisy than fire across a 
      handkerchief . from that day -PRON- have always -PRON- pill box about with -PRON- , 
      and the time have now come when -PRON- be to use -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be near one than twelve , and a wild , bleak night , blow hard 
      and rain in torrent . dismal as -PRON- be outside , -PRON- be glad 
      within -- so glad that -PRON- could have shout out from pure exultation . 
      if any of -PRON- gentleman have ever pine for a thing , and long for 
      -PRON- during twenty long year , and then suddenly find -PRON- within -PRON- 
      reach , -PRON- would understand -PRON- feeling . -PRON- light a cigar , and puff at 
      -PRON- to steady -PRON- nerve , but -PRON- hand be tremble , and -PRON- temple 
      throb with excitement . as -PRON- drive , -PRON- could see old John Ferrier 
      and sweet Lucy look at -PRON- out of the darkness and smile at -PRON- , 
      just as plain as -PRON- see -PRON- all in this room . all the way -PRON- be 
      ahead of -PRON- , one on each side of the horse until -PRON- pull up at the 
      house in the Brixton Road . 

      " there be not a soul to be see , nor a sound to be hear , except the 
      drip of the rain . when -PRON- look in at the window , -PRON- find Drebber 
      all huddle together in a drunken sleep . -PRON- shake -PRON- by the arm , 
      ' -PRON- be time to get out , ' -PRON- say . 

      " ' all right , cabby , ' say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- suppose -PRON- think -PRON- have come to the hotel that -PRON- have mention , 
      for -PRON- get out without another word , and follow -PRON- down the garden . 
      -PRON- have to walk beside -PRON- to keep -PRON- steady , for -PRON- be still a 
      little top - heavy . when -PRON- come to the door , -PRON- open -PRON- , and lead -PRON- 
      into the front room . -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- word that all the way , the father 
      and the daughter be walk in front of -PRON- . 

      " ' -PRON- be infernally dark , ' say -PRON- , stamp about . 

      " ' -PRON- will soon have a light , ' -PRON- say , strike a match and put -PRON- 
      to a wax candle which -PRON- have bring with -PRON- . ' now , Enoch Drebber , ' -PRON- 
      continue , turn to -PRON- , and hold the light to -PRON- own face , ' who 
      be -PRON- ? ' 

      " -PRON- gaze at -PRON- with blear , drunken eye for a moment , and then -PRON- 
      see a horror spring up in -PRON- , and convulse -PRON- whole feature , 
      which show -PRON- that -PRON- know -PRON- . -PRON- stagger back with a livid face , 
      and -PRON- see the perspiration break out upon -PRON- brow , while -PRON- tooth 
      chatter in -PRON- head . at the sight , -PRON- lean -PRON- back against the 
      door and laugh loud and long . -PRON- have always know that vengeance 
      would be sweet , but -PRON- have never hope for the contentment of soul 
      which now possess -PRON- . 

      " ' -PRON- dog ! ' -PRON- say ; ' -PRON- have hunt -PRON- from Salt Lake City to St. 
      Petersburg , and -PRON- have always escape -PRON- . now , at last -PRON- 
      wandering have come to an end , for either -PRON- or -PRON- shall never see 
      to - morrow 's sun rise . ' -PRON- shrink still further away as -PRON- speak , and -PRON- 
      could see on -PRON- face that -PRON- think -PRON- be mad . so -PRON- be for the 
      time . the pulse in -PRON- temple beat like sledge - hammer , and -PRON- 
      believe -PRON- would have have a fit of some sort if the blood have not 
      gush from -PRON- nose and relieve -PRON- . 

      " ' what do -PRON- think of Lucy Ferrier now ? ' -PRON- cry , lock the door , 
      and shake the key in -PRON- face . ' punishment have be slow in come , 
      but -PRON- have overtake -PRON- at last . ' -PRON- see -PRON- coward lip tremble as -PRON- 
      speak . -PRON- would have beg for -PRON- life , but -PRON- know well that -PRON- 
      be useless . 

      " ' Would -PRON- murder -PRON- ? ' -PRON- stammer . 

      " ' there be no murder , ' -PRON- answer . ' who talk of murder a mad dog ? 
      what mercy have -PRON- upon -PRON- poor darling , when -PRON- drag -PRON- from 
      -PRON- slaughtered father , and bear -PRON- away to -PRON- accursed and 
      shameless harem . ' 

      " ' -PRON- be not -PRON- who kill -PRON- father , ' -PRON- cry . 

      " ' but -PRON- be -PRON- who break -PRON- innocent heart , ' -PRON- shriek , thrust 
      the box before -PRON- . ' let the high God judge between -PRON- . choose and 
      eat . there be death in one and life in the other . -PRON- shall take what 
      -PRON- leave . let -PRON- see if there be justice upon the earth , or if -PRON- 
      be rule by chance . ' 

      " -PRON- cower away with wild cry and prayer for mercy , but -PRON- draw -PRON- 
      knife and hold -PRON- to -PRON- throat until -PRON- have obey -PRON- . then -PRON- 
      swallow the other , and -PRON- stand face one another in silence for a 
      minute or more , wait to see which be to live and which be to 
      die . Shall -PRON- ever forget the look which come over -PRON- face when the 
      first warning pang tell -PRON- that the poison be in -PRON- system ? -PRON- 
      laugh as -PRON- see -PRON- , and hold Lucy 's marriage ring in front of -PRON- 
      eye . -PRON- be but for a moment , for the action of the alkaloid be 
      rapid . a spasm of pain contort -PRON- feature ; -PRON- throw -PRON- hand out 
      in front of -PRON- , stagger , and then , with a hoarse cry , fall heavily 
      upon the floor . -PRON- turn -PRON- over with -PRON- foot , and place -PRON- hand 
      upon -PRON- heart . there be no movement . -PRON- be dead ! 

      " the blood have be stream from -PRON- nose , but -PRON- have take no notice 
      of -PRON- . -PRON- do not know what -PRON- be that put -PRON- into -PRON- head to write 
      upon the wall with -PRON- . perhaps -PRON- be some mischievous idea of 
      set the police upon a wrong track , for -PRON- feel light - hearted and 
      cheerful . -PRON- remember a German being find in New York with RACHE 
      write up above -PRON- , and -PRON- be argue at the time in the newspaper 
      that the secret society must have do -PRON- . -PRON- guess that what 
      puzzle the New Yorkers would puzzle the Londoners , so -PRON- dip -PRON- 
      finger in -PRON- own blood and print -PRON- on a convenient place on the 
      wall . then -PRON- walk down to -PRON- cab and find that there be nobody 
      about , and that the night be still very wild . -PRON- have drive some 
      distance when -PRON- put -PRON- hand into the pocket in which -PRON- usually keep 
      Lucy 's ring , and find that -PRON- be not there . -PRON- be thunderstruck at 
      this , for -PRON- be the only memento that -PRON- have of -PRON- . think that -PRON- 
      may have drop -PRON- when -PRON- stoop over Drebber 's body , -PRON- drive 
      back , and leave -PRON- cab in a side street , -PRON- go boldly up to the 
      house -- for -PRON- be ready to dare anything rather than lose the ring . 
      when -PRON- arrive there , -PRON- walk right into the arm of a 
      police - officer who be come out , and only manage to disarm -PRON- 
      suspicion by pretend to be hopelessly drunk . 

      " that be how Enoch Drebber come to -PRON- end . all -PRON- have to do then be 
      to do as much for Stangerson , and so pay off John Ferrier 's debt . -PRON- 
      know that -PRON- be stay at Halliday 's Private Hotel , and -PRON- hang 
      about all day , but -PRON- never come out . -PRON- fancy that -PRON- suspect 
      something when Drebber fail to put in an appearance . -PRON- be 
      cunning , be Stangerson , and always on -PRON- guard . if -PRON- think -PRON- 
      could keep -PRON- off by stay indoor -PRON- be very much mistaken . -PRON- 
      soon find out which be the window of -PRON- bedroom , and early next 
      morning -PRON- take advantage of some ladder which be lie in the lane 
      behind the hotel , and so make -PRON- way into -PRON- room in the grey of the 
      dawn . -PRON- wake -PRON- up and tell -PRON- that the hour have come when -PRON- be 
      to answer for the life -PRON- have take so long before . -PRON- describe 
      Drebber 's death to -PRON- , and -PRON- give -PRON- the same choice of the 
      poison pill . instead of grasp at the chance of safety which 
      that offer -PRON- , -PRON- spring from -PRON- bed and fly at -PRON- throat . in 
      self - defence -PRON- stab -PRON- to the heart . -PRON- would have be the same 
      in any case , for Providence would never have allow -PRON- guilty hand 
      to pick out anything but the poison . 

      " -PRON- have little more to say , and -PRON- be as well , for -PRON- be about do up . 
      -PRON- go on cabbe -PRON- for a day or so , intend to keep at -PRON- until -PRON- 
      could save enough to take -PRON- back to America . -PRON- be stand in the 
      yard when a rag youngster ask if there be a cabby there call 
      Jefferson Hope , and say that -PRON- cab be want by a gentleman at 
      221b , Baker Street . -PRON- go round , suspect no harm , and the next 
      thing -PRON- know , this young man here have the bracelet on -PRON- wrist , and 
      as neatly snackle as ever -PRON- see in -PRON- life . that be the whole of -PRON- 
      story , gentleman . -PRON- may consider -PRON- to be a murderer ; but -PRON- hold 
      that -PRON- be just as much an officer of justice as -PRON- be . " 

      so thrilling have the man 's narrative be , and -PRON- manner be so 
      impressive that -PRON- have sit silent and absorb . even the professional 
      detective , blase as -PRON- be in every detail of crime , appear to 
      be keenly interested in the man 's story . when -PRON- finish -PRON- sit for 
      some minute in a stillness which be only break by the scratching 
      of Lestrade 's pencil as -PRON- give the finishing touch to -PRON- 
      shorthand account . 

      " there be only one point on which -PRON- should like a little more 
      information , " Sherlock Holmes say at last . " who be -PRON- accomplice 
      who come for the ring which -PRON- advertise ? " 

      the prisoner wink at -PRON- friend jocosely . " -PRON- can tell -PRON- own 
      secret , " -PRON- say , " but -PRON- do not get other people into trouble . -PRON- see 
      -PRON- advertisement , and -PRON- think -PRON- may be a plant , or -PRON- may be 
      the ring which -PRON- want . -PRON- friend volunteer to go and see . -PRON- think 
      -PRON- will own -PRON- do -PRON- smartly . " 

      " not a doubt of that , " say Holmes heartily . 

      " now , gentleman , " the Inspector remark gravely , " the form of the 
      law must be comply with . on Thursday the prisoner will be bring 
      before the magistrate , and -PRON- attendance will be require . until 
      then -PRON- will be responsible for -PRON- . " -PRON- ring the bell as -PRON- speak , 
      and Jefferson Hope be lead off by a couple of warder , while -PRON- 
      friend and -PRON- make -PRON- way out of the Station and take a cab back to 
      Baker Street . 





           CHAPTER VII 
           the Conclusion 


      -PRON- have all be warn to appear before the magistrate upon the 
      Thursday ; but when the Thursday come there be no occasion for -PRON- 
      testimony . a high Judge have take the matter in hand , and Jefferson 
      Hope have be summon before a tribunal where strict justice would 
      be mete out to -PRON- . on the very night after -PRON- capture the aneurism 
      burst , and -PRON- be find in the morning stretch upon the floor of 
      the cell , with a placid smile upon -PRON- face , as though -PRON- have be 
      able in -PRON- die moment to look back upon a useful life , and on 
      work well do . 

      " Gregson and Lestrade will be wild about -PRON- death , " Holmes remark , 
      as -PRON- chat -PRON- over next evening . " where will -PRON- grand 
      advertisement be now ? " 

      " -PRON- do not see that -PRON- have very much to do with -PRON- capture , " -PRON- 
      answer . 

      " what -PRON- do in this world be a matter of no consequence , " return 
      -PRON- companion , bitterly . " the question be , what can -PRON- make people 
      believe that -PRON- have do . never mind , " -PRON- continue , more brightly , 
      after a pause . " -PRON- would not have miss the investigation for 
      anything . there have be no well case within -PRON- recollection . 
      Simple as -PRON- be , there be several most instructive point about 
      -PRON- . " 

      " Simple ! " -PRON- ejaculate . 

      " well , really , -PRON- can hardly be describe as otherwise , " say 
      Sherlock Holmes , smile at -PRON- surprise . " the proof of -PRON- intrinsic 
      simplicity be , that without any help save a few very ordinary 
      deduction -PRON- be able to lay -PRON- hand upon the criminal within three 
      day . " 

      " that be true , " say I. 

      " -PRON- have already explain to -PRON- that what be out of the common be 
      usually a guide rather than a hindrance . in solve a problem of this 
      sort , the grand thing be to be able to reason backwards . that be a 
      very useful accomplishment , and a very easy one , but people do not 
      practise -PRON- much . in the every - day affair of life -PRON- be more useful 
      to reason forwards , and so the other come to be neglect . there be 
      fifty who can reason synthetically for one who can reason 
      analytically . " 

      " -PRON- confess , " say -PRON- , " that -PRON- do not quite follow -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- hardly expect that -PRON- would . let -PRON- see if -PRON- can make -PRON- 
      clear . Most people , if -PRON- describe a train of event to -PRON- , will 
      tell -PRON- what the result would be . -PRON- can put those event together 
      in -PRON- mind , and argue from -PRON- that something will come to pass . 
      there be few people , however , who , if -PRON- tell -PRON- a result , would 
      be able to evolve from -PRON- own inner consciousness what the step 
      be which lead up to that result . this power be what -PRON- mean when -PRON- 
      talk of reasoning backwards , or analytically . " 

      " -PRON- understand , " say I. 

      " now this be a case in which -PRON- be give the result and have to 
      find everything else for -PRON- . now let -PRON- endeavour to show -PRON- 
      the different step in -PRON- reasoning . to begin at the beginning . -PRON- 
      approach the house , as -PRON- know , on foot , and with -PRON- mind entirely 
      free from all impression . -PRON- naturally begin by examine the 
      roadway , and there , as -PRON- have already explain to -PRON- , -PRON- see clearly 
      the mark of a cab , which , -PRON- ascertain by inquiry , must have be 
      there during the night . -PRON- satisfy -PRON- that -PRON- be a cab and not 
      a private carriage by the narrow gauge of the wheel . the ordinary 
      London growler be considerably less wide than a gentleman 's brougham . 

      " this be the first point gain . -PRON- then walk slowly down the 
      garden path , which happen to be compose of a clay soil , peculiarly 
      suitable for take impression . no doubt -PRON- appear to -PRON- to be a 
      mere trampled line of slush , but to -PRON- train eye every mark upon 
      -PRON- surface have a meaning . there be no branch of detective science 
      which be so important and so much neglect as the art of trace 
      footstep . happily , -PRON- have always lay great stress upon -PRON- , and much 
      practice have make -PRON- second nature to -PRON- . -PRON- see the heavy footmark 
      of the constable , but -PRON- see also the track of the two man who have 
      first pass through the garden . -PRON- be easy to tell that -PRON- have 
      be before the other , because in place -PRON- mark have be 
      entirely obliterate by the other come upon the top of -PRON- . in 
      this way -PRON- second link be form , which tell -PRON- that the nocturnal 
      visitor be two in number , one remarkable for -PRON- height ( as -PRON- 
      calculate from the length of -PRON- stride ) , and the other fashionably 
      dress , to judge from the small and elegant impression leave by -PRON- 
      boot . 

      " on enter the house this last inference be confirm . -PRON- 
      well - boot man lie before -PRON- . the tall one , then , have do the 
      murder , if murder there be . there be no wound upon the dead man 's 
      person , but the agitated expression upon -PRON- face assure -PRON- that -PRON- 
      have foresee -PRON- fate before -PRON- come upon -PRON- . man who die from heart 
      disease , or any sudden natural cause , never by any chance exhibit 
      agitation upon -PRON- feature . have sniff the dead man 's lip -PRON- 
      detect a slightly sour smell , and -PRON- come to the conclusion that -PRON- 
      have have poison force upon -PRON- . again , -PRON- argue that -PRON- have be 
      force upon -PRON- from the hatred and fear express upon -PRON- face . by 
      the method of exclusion , -PRON- have arrive at this result , for no other 
      hypothesis would meet the fact . do not imagine that -PRON- be a very 
      unheard of idea . the forcible administration of poison be by no means 
      a new thing in criminal annal . the case of Dolsky in Odessa , and of 
      leturier in Montpellier , will occur at once to any toxicologist . 

      " and now come the great question as to the reason why . robbery have 
      not be the object of the murder , for nothing be take . be -PRON- 
      politic , then , or be -PRON- a woman ? that be the question which 
      confront -PRON- . -PRON- be incline from the first to the latter 
      supposition . political assassin be only too glad to do -PRON- work 
      and to fly . this murder have , on the contrary , be do most 
      deliberately , and the perpetrator have leave -PRON- track all over the 
      room , show that -PRON- have be there all the time . -PRON- must have be 
      a private wrong , and not a political one , which call for such a 
      methodical revenge . when the inscription be discover upon the wall 
      -PRON- be more inclined than ever to -PRON- opinion . the thing be too 
      evidently a blind . when the ring be find , however , -PRON- settle the 
      question . clearly the murderer have use -PRON- to remind -PRON- victim of 
      some dead or absent woman . -PRON- be at this point that -PRON- ask Gregson 
      whether -PRON- have enquire in -PRON- telegram to Cleveland as to any 
      particular point in Mr. Drebber 's former career . -PRON- answer , -PRON- 
      remember , in the negative . 

      " -PRON- then proceed to make a careful examination of the room , which 
      confirm -PRON- in -PRON- opinion as to the murderer 's height , and furnish 
      -PRON- with the additional detail as to the Trichinopoly cigar and the 
      length of -PRON- nail . -PRON- have already come to the conclusion , since 
      there be no sign of a struggle , that the blood which cover the 
      floor have burst from the murderer 's nose in -PRON- excitement . -PRON- could 
      perceive that the track of blood coincide with the track of -PRON- 
      foot . -PRON- be seldom that any man , unless -PRON- be very full - blooded , 
      break out in this way through emotion , so -PRON- hazard the opinion 
      that the criminal be probably a robust and ruddy - faced man . event 
      prove that -PRON- have judge correctly . 

      " have leave the house , -PRON- proceed to do what Gregson have neglect . 
      -PRON- telegraph to the head of the police at Cleveland , limit -PRON- 
      enquiry to the circumstance connect with the marriage of Enoch 
      Drebber . the answer be conclusive . -PRON- tell -PRON- that Drebber have 
      already apply for the protection of the law against an old rival in 
      love , name Jefferson Hope , and that this same Hope be at present in 
      Europe . -PRON- know now that -PRON- hold the clue to the mystery in -PRON- hand , 
      and all that remain be to secure the murderer . 

      " -PRON- have already determine in -PRON- own mind that the man who have walk 
      into the house with Drebber , be none other than the man who have 
      drive the cab . the mark in the road show -PRON- that the horse have 
      wander on in a way which would have be impossible have there be 
      anyone in charge of -PRON- . where , then , could the driver be , unless -PRON- 
      be inside the house ? again , -PRON- be absurd to suppose that any sane 
      man would carry out a deliberate crime under the very eye , as -PRON- 
      be , of a third person , who be sure to betray -PRON- . lastly , 
      suppose one man wish to dog another through London , what well 
      mean could -PRON- adopt than to turn cabdriver . all these consideration 
      lead -PRON- to the irresistible conclusion that Jefferson Hope be to be 
      find among the jarvey of the Metropolis . 

      " if -PRON- have be one there be no reason to believe that -PRON- have cease 
      to be . on the contrary , from -PRON- point of view , any sudden chance 
      would be likely to draw attention to -PRON- . -PRON- would , probably , for 
      a time at least , continue to perform -PRON- duty . there be no reason 
      to suppose that -PRON- be go under an assumed name . why should -PRON- 
      change -PRON- name in a country where no one know -PRON- original one ? -PRON- 
      therefore organize -PRON- Street Arab detective corps , and send -PRON- 
      systematically to every cab proprietor in London until -PRON- ferret 
      out the man that -PRON- want . how well -PRON- succeed , and how quickly -PRON- 
      take advantage of -PRON- , be still fresh in -PRON- recollection . the 
      murder of Stangerson be an incident which be entirely unexpected , 
      but which could hardly in any case have be prevent . through -PRON- , 
      as -PRON- know , -PRON- come into possession of the pill , the existence of 
      which -PRON- have already surmise . -PRON- see the whole thing be a chain of 
      logical sequence without a break or flaw . " 

      " -PRON- be wonderful ! " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- merit should be publicly 
      recognize . -PRON- should publish an account of the case . if -PRON- will not , 
      -PRON- will for -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- may do what -PRON- like , Doctor , " -PRON- answer . " see here ! " -PRON- 
      continue , hand a paper over to -PRON- , " look at this ! " 

      -PRON- be the Echo for the day , and the paragraph to which -PRON- point 
      be devote to the case in question . 

      " the public , " -PRON- say , " have lose a sensational treat through the 
      sudden death of the man Hope , who be suspect of the murder of Mr. 
      Enoch Drebber and of Mr. Joseph Stangerson . the detail of the case 
      will probably be never know now , though -PRON- be inform upon good 
      authority that the crime be the result of an old standing and 
      romantic feud , in which love and Mormonism bear a part . -PRON- seem that 
      both the victim belong , in -PRON- young day , to the Latter Day 
      Saints , and Hope , the deceased prisoner , hail also from Salt Lake 
      City . if the case have have no other effect , -PRON- , at least , bring out 
      in the most striking manner the efficiency of -PRON- detective police 
      force , and will serve as a lesson to all foreigner that -PRON- will do 
      wisely to settle -PRON- feud at home , and not to carry -PRON- on to 
      british soil . -PRON- be an open secret that the credit of this smart 
      capture belong entirely to the well - know Scotland Yard official , 
      Messrs. Lestrade and Gregson . the man be apprehend , -PRON- appear , in 
      the room of a certain Mr. Sherlock Holmes , who have -PRON- , as an 
      amateur , show some talent in the detective line , and who , with such 
      instructor , may hope in time to attain to some degree of -PRON- 
      skill . -PRON- be expect that a testimonial of some sort will be 
      present to the two officer as a fitting recognition of -PRON- 
      service . " 

      " do not -PRON- tell -PRON- so when -PRON- start ? " cry Sherlock Holmes with a 
      laugh . " that be the result of all -PRON- Study in Scarlet : to get -PRON- a 
      testimonial ! " 

      " never mind , " -PRON- answer , " -PRON- have all the fact in -PRON- journal , and 
      the public shall know -PRON- . in the meantime -PRON- must make -PRON- 
      content by the consciousness of success , like the Roman miser-- 

                       " ' populus -PRON- sibilat , at mihi plaudo 
                  Ipse domi simul ac nummos contemplar in arca . ' " 









      ---------- 
      this text be provide to -PRON- " as - be " without any warranty . no 
      warranty of any kind , express or imply , be make to -PRON- as to 
      the text or any medium -PRON- may be on , include but not limited to 
      warranty of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose . 

      this text be format from various free ASCII and HTML variant . 
      see http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and 
      additional information about -PRON- . 

      this text come from the collection 's version 3.1 . 






 