



                           the HOUND of the baskerville 

                                Arthur Conan Doyle 







                                 table of content 
         Mr. Sherlock Holmes 
         the curse of the Baskervilles 
         the Problem 
         Sir Henry Baskerville 
         three Broken Threads 
         Baskerville Hall 
         the Stapletons of Merripit House 
         First Report of Dr. Watson 
         Second Report of Dr. Watson 
         Extract from the Diary of Dr. Watson 
         the Man on the Tor 
         death on the Moor 
         fix the Nets 
         the Hound of the Baskervilles 
         a Retrospection 















           CHAPTER -PRON- 
           Mr. Sherlock Holmes 


      Mr. Sherlock Holmes , who be usually very late in the morning , save 
      upon those not infrequent occasion when -PRON- be up all night , be 
      seat at the breakfast table . -PRON- stand upon the hearth - rug and pick 
      up the stick which -PRON- visitor have leave behind -PRON- the night before . 
      -PRON- be a fine , thick piece of wood , bulbous - headed , of the sort which 
      be know as a " Penang lawyer . " just under the head be a broad silver 
      band nearly an inch across . " to James Mortimer , M.R.C.S. , from -PRON- 
      friend of the C.C.H. , " be engrave upon -PRON- , with the date " 1884 . " 
      -PRON- be just such a stick as the old - fashioned family practitioner 
      use to carry -- dignified , solid , and reassuring . 

      " well , Watson , what do -PRON- make of -PRON- ? " 

      Holmes be sit with -PRON- back to -PRON- , and -PRON- have give -PRON- no sign 
      of -PRON- occupation . 

      " how do -PRON- know what -PRON- be do ? -PRON- believe -PRON- have eye in the 
      back of -PRON- head . " 

      " -PRON- have , at least , a well - polished , silver - plate coffee - pot in front 
      of -PRON- , " say -PRON- . " but , tell -PRON- , Watson , what do -PRON- make of -PRON- 
      visitor 's stick ? since -PRON- have be so unfortunate as to miss -PRON- and 
      have no notion of -PRON- errand , this accidental souvenir become of 
      importance . let -PRON- hear -PRON- reconstruct the man by an examination of 
      -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- think , " say -PRON- , follow as far as -PRON- could the method of -PRON- 
      companion , " that Dr. Mortimer be a successful , elderly medical man , 
      well - esteem since those who know -PRON- give -PRON- this mark of -PRON- 
      appreciation . " 

      " good ! " say Holmes . " excellent ! " 

      " -PRON- think also that the probability be in favour of -PRON- be a 
      country practitioner who do a great deal of -PRON- visit on foot . " 

      " why so ? " 

      " because this stick , though originally a very handsome one have be 
      so knock about that -PRON- can hardly imagine a town practitioner 
      carry -PRON- . the thick - iron ferrule be wear down , so -PRON- be evident 
      that -PRON- have do a great amount of walk with -PRON- . " 

      " perfectly sound ! " say Holmes . 

      " and then again , there be the ' friend of the C.C.H. ' -PRON- should guess 
      that to be the Something Hunt , the local hunt to whose member -PRON- have 
      possibly give some surgical assistance , and which have make -PRON- a 
      small presentation in return . " 

      " really , Watson , -PRON- excel -PRON- , " say Holmes , push back -PRON- 
      chair and light a cigarette . " -PRON- be bind to say that in all the 
      account which -PRON- have be so good as to give of -PRON- own small 
      achievement -PRON- have habitually underrate -PRON- own ability . -PRON- 
      may be that -PRON- be not -PRON- luminous , but -PRON- be a conductor of 
      light . some people without possess genius have a remarkable power 
      of stimulate -PRON- . -PRON- confess , -PRON- dear fellow , that -PRON- be very much in 
      -PRON- debt . " 

      -PRON- have never say as much before , and -PRON- must admit that -PRON- word 
      give -PRON- keen pleasure , for -PRON- have often be pique by -PRON- 
      indifference to -PRON- admiration and to the attempt which -PRON- have make to 
      give publicity to -PRON- method . -PRON- be proud , too , to think that -PRON- have 
      so far master -PRON- system as to apply -PRON- in a way which earn -PRON- 
      approval . -PRON- now take the stick from -PRON- hand and examine -PRON- for a 
      few minute with -PRON- naked eye . then with an expression of interest 
      -PRON- lay down -PRON- cigarette , and carry the cane to the window , -PRON- 
      look over -PRON- again with a convex lens . 

      " interesting , though elementary , " say -PRON- as -PRON- return to -PRON- 
      favourite corner of the settee . " there be certainly one or two 
      indication upon the stick . -PRON- give -PRON- the basis for several 
      deduction . " 

      " have anything escape -PRON- ? " -PRON- ask with some self - importance . " -PRON- 
      trust that there be nothing of consequence which -PRON- have overlook ? " 

      " -PRON- be afraid , -PRON- dear Watson , that most of -PRON- conclusion be 
      erroneous . when -PRON- say that -PRON- stimulate -PRON- -PRON- mean , to be frank , 
      that in note -PRON- fallacy -PRON- be occasionally guide towards the 
      truth . not that -PRON- be entirely wrong in this instance . the man be 
      certainly a country practitioner . and -PRON- walk a good deal . " 

      " then -PRON- be right . " 

      " to that extent . " 

      " but that be all . " 

      " no , no , -PRON- dear Watson , not all -- by no means all . -PRON- would suggest , 
      for example , that a presentation to a doctor be more likely to come 
      from a hospital than from a hunt , and that when the initial ' C.C. ' 
      be place before that hospital the word ' char Cross ' very 
      naturally suggest -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- may be right . " 

      " the probability lie in that direction . and if -PRON- take this as a 
      work hypothesis -PRON- have a fresh basis from which to start -PRON- 
      construction of this unknown visitor . " 

      " well , then , suppose that ' C.C.H. ' do stand for ' char Cross 
      Hospital , ' what further inference may -PRON- draw ? " 

      " do none suggest -PRON- ? -PRON- know -PRON- method . apply -PRON- ! " 

      " -PRON- can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man have 
      practise in town before go to the country . " 

      " -PRON- think that -PRON- may venture a little farth than this . look at -PRON- 
      in this light . on what occasion would -PRON- be most probable that such a 
      presentation would be make ? when would -PRON- friend unite to give -PRON- 
      a pledge of -PRON- good will ? obviously at the moment when Dr. 
      Mortimer withdraw from the service of the hospital in order to start 
      in practice for -PRON- . -PRON- know there have be a presentation . -PRON- 
      believe there have be a change from a town hospital to a country 
      practice . be -PRON- , then , stretch -PRON- inference too far to say that 
      the presentation be on the occasion of the change ? " 

      " -PRON- certainly seem probable . " 

      " now , -PRON- will observe that -PRON- could not have be on the staff of 
      the hospital , since only a man well - establish in a London practice 
      could hold such a position , and such a one would not drift into the 
      country . what be -PRON- , then ? if -PRON- be in the hospital and yet not on 
      the staff -PRON- could only have be a house - surgeon or a 
      house - physician -- little more than a senior student . and -PRON- leave five 
      year ago -- the date be on the stick . so -PRON- grave , middle - aged 
      family practitioner vanish into thin air , -PRON- dear Watson , and there 
      emerge a young fellow under thirty , amiable , unambitious , 
      absent - minded , and the possessor of a favourite dog , which -PRON- should 
      describe roughly as be large than a terrier and small than a 
      mastiff . " 

      -PRON- laugh incredulously as Sherlock Holmes lean back in -PRON- settee 
      and blow little wavering ring of smoke up to the ceiling . 

      " as to the latter part , -PRON- have no means of check -PRON- , " say -PRON- , 
      " but at least -PRON- be not difficult to find out a few particular about 
      the man 's age and professional career . " from -PRON- small medical shelf -PRON- 
      take down the Medical Directory and turn up the name . there be 
      several mortimer , but only one who could be -PRON- visitor . -PRON- read -PRON- 
      record aloud . 

      " Mortimer , James , M.R.C.S. , 1882 , Grimpen , Dartmoor , Devon . 
      House - surgeon , from 1882 to 1884 , at Charing Cross Hospital . winner 
      of the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology , with essay entitle 
      ' be Disease a Reversion ? ' correspond member of the Swedish 
      Pathological Society . author of ' some freak of atavism ' ( Lancet 
      1882 ) . ' do -PRON- progress ? ' ( Journal of Psychology , March , 1883 ) . 
      Medical Officer for the parish of Grimpen , Thorsley , and high 
      Barrow . " 

      " no mention of that local hunt , Watson , " say Holmes with a 
      mischievous smile , " but a country doctor , as -PRON- very astutely 
      observe . -PRON- think that -PRON- be fairly justify in -PRON- inference . as to 
      the adjective , -PRON- say , if -PRON- remember right , amiable , unambitious , 
      and absent - minded . -PRON- be -PRON- experience that -PRON- be only an amiable man 
      in this world who receive testimonial , only an unambitious one who 
      abandon a London career for the country , and only an absent - minded 
      one who leave -PRON- stick and not -PRON- visit - card after wait an 
      hour in -PRON- room . " 

      " and the dog ? " 

      " have be in the habit of carry this stick behind -PRON- master . 
      be a heavy stick the dog have hold -PRON- tightly by the middle , and 
      the mark of -PRON- tooth be very plainly visible . the dog 's jaw , as 
      show in the space between these mark , be too broad in -PRON- opinion 
      for a terrier and not broad enough for a mastiff . -PRON- may have 
      be -- yes , by Jove , -PRON- be a curly - haired spaniel . " 

      -PRON- have rise and pace the room as -PRON- speak . now -PRON- halt in the 
      recess of the window . there be such a ring of conviction in -PRON- 
      voice that -PRON- glance up in surprise . 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , how can -PRON- possibly be so sure of that ? " 

      " for the very simple reason that -PRON- see the dog -PRON- on -PRON- very 
      door - step , and there be the ring of -PRON- owner . do not move , -PRON- beg -PRON- , 
      Watson . -PRON- be a professional brother of -PRON- , and -PRON- presence may 
      be of assistance to -PRON- . now be the dramatic moment of fate , Watson , 
      when -PRON- hear a step upon the stair which be walk into -PRON- life , 
      and -PRON- know not whether for good or ill . what do Dr. James 
      Mortimer , the man of science , ask of Sherlock Holmes , the specialist 
      in crime ? come in ! " 

      the appearance of -PRON- visitor be a surprise to -PRON- , since -PRON- have 
      expect a typical country practitioner . -PRON- be a very tall , thin 
      man , with a long nose like a beak , which jut out between two keen , 
      gray eye , set closely together and sparkle brightly from behind a 
      pair of gold - rim glass . -PRON- be clothe in a professional but rather 
      slovenly fashion , for -PRON- frock - coat be dingy and -PRON- trouser 
      fray . though young , -PRON- long back be already bow , and -PRON- walk 
      with a forward thrust of -PRON- head and a general air of peer 
      benevolence . as -PRON- enter -PRON- eye fall upon the stick in Holmes 's 
      hand , and -PRON- run towards -PRON- with an exclamation of joy . " -PRON- be so very 
      glad , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be not sure whether -PRON- have leave -PRON- here or in the 
      Shipping Office . -PRON- would not lose that stick for the world . " 

      " a presentation , -PRON- see , " say Holmes . 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " from Charing Cross Hospital ? " 

      " from one or two friend there on the occasion of -PRON- marriage . " 

      " dear , dear , that be bad ! " say Holmes , shake -PRON- head . 

      Dr. Mortimer blink through -PRON- glass in mild astonishment . 

      " why be -PRON- bad ? " 

      " only that -PRON- have disarrange -PRON- little deduction . -PRON- marriage , 
      -PRON- say ? " 

      " yes , sir . -PRON- marry , and so leave the hospital , and with -PRON- all hope 
      of a consulting practice . -PRON- be necessary to make a home of -PRON- own . " 

      " come , come , -PRON- be not so far wrong , after all , " say Holmes . " and 
      now , Dr. James Mortimer-- " 

      " Mister , sir , Mister -- a humble m.r.c.s. " 

      " and a man of precise mind , evidently . " 

      " a dabbler in science , Mr. Holmes , a picker up of shell on the 
      shore of the great unknown ocean . -PRON- presume that -PRON- be Mr. Sherlock 
      Holmes whom -PRON- be address and not-- " 

      " no , this be -PRON- friend Dr. Watson . " 

      " Glad to meet -PRON- , sir . -PRON- have hear -PRON- name mention in 
      connection with that of -PRON- friend . -PRON- interest -PRON- very much , Mr. 
      Holmes . -PRON- have hardly expect so dolichocephalic a skull or such 
      well - mark supra - orbital development . Would -PRON- have any objection 
      to -PRON- run -PRON- finger along -PRON- parietal fissure ? a cast of -PRON- 
      skull , sir , until the original be available , would be an ornament to 
      any anthropological museum . -PRON- be not -PRON- intention to be fulsome , but 
      -PRON- confess that -PRON- covet -PRON- skull . " 

      Sherlock Holmes wave -PRON- strange visitor into a chair . " -PRON- be an 
      enthusiast in -PRON- line of thought , -PRON- perceive , sir , as -PRON- be in 
      mine , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- observe from -PRON- forefinger that -PRON- make -PRON- 
      own cigarette . have no hesitation in light one . " 

      the man draw out paper and tobacco and twirl the one up in the 
      other with surprising dexterity . -PRON- have long , quiver finger as 
      agile and restless as the antennae of an insect . 

      Holmes be silent , but -PRON- little dart glance show -PRON- the 
      interest which -PRON- take in -PRON- curious companion . 

      " -PRON- presume , sir , " say -PRON- at last , " that -PRON- be not merely for the 
      purpose of examine -PRON- skull that -PRON- have do -PRON- the honour to 
      call here last night and again to - day ? " 

      " no , sir , no ; though -PRON- be happy to have have the opportunity of do 
      that as well . -PRON- come to -PRON- , Mr. Holmes , because -PRON- recognize that -PRON- 
      be -PRON- an unpractical man and because -PRON- be suddenly confront 
      with a most serious and extraordinary problem . recognizing , as -PRON- do , 
      that -PRON- be the second high expert in europe-- " 

      " indeed , sir ! May -PRON- inquire who have the honour to be the first ? " 
      ask Holmes with some asperity . 

      " to the man of precisely scientific mind the work of Monsieur 
      Bertillon must always appeal strongly . " 

      " then have -PRON- not well consult -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- say , sir , to the precisely scientific mind . but as a practical 
      man of affair -PRON- be acknowledge that -PRON- stand alone . -PRON- trust , sir , 
      that -PRON- have not inadvertently-- " 

      " just a little , " say Holmes . " -PRON- think , Dr. Mortimer , -PRON- would do 
      wisely if without more ado -PRON- would kindly tell -PRON- plainly what the 
      exact nature of the problem be in which -PRON- demand -PRON- assistance . " 





           CHAPTER II 
           the curse of the Baskervilles 


      " -PRON- have in -PRON- pocket a manuscript , " say Dr. James Mortimer . 

      " -PRON- observe -PRON- as -PRON- enter the room , " say Holmes . 

      " -PRON- be an old manuscript . " 

      " early eighteenth century , unless -PRON- be a forgery . " 

      " how can -PRON- say that , sir ? " 

      " -PRON- have present an inch or two of -PRON- to -PRON- examination all the 
      time that -PRON- have be talk . -PRON- would be a poor expert who could 
      not give the date of a document within a decade or so . -PRON- may 
      possibly have read -PRON- little monograph upon the subject . -PRON- put that 
      at 1730 . " 

      " the exact date be 1742 . " Dr. Mortimer draw -PRON- from -PRON- 
      breast - pocket . " this family paper be commit to -PRON- care by Sir 
      Charles Baskerville , whose sudden and tragic death some three month 
      ago create so much excitement in Devonshire . -PRON- may say that -PRON- be 
      -PRON- personal friend as well as -PRON- medical attendant . -PRON- be a 
      strong - minded man , sir , shrewd , practical , and as unimaginative as -PRON- 
      be -PRON- . yet -PRON- take this document very seriously , and -PRON- mind be 
      prepare for just such an end as do eventually overtake -PRON- . " 

      Holmes stretch out -PRON- hand for the manuscript and flatten -PRON- 
      upon -PRON- knee . 

      " -PRON- will observe , Watson , the alternative use of the long s and the 
      short . -PRON- be one of several indication which enable -PRON- to fix the 
      date . " 

      -PRON- look over -PRON- shoulder at the yellow paper and the fade script . 
      at the head be write : " Baskerville Hall , " and below in large , 
      scrawl figure : " 1742 . " 

      " -PRON- appear to be a statement of some sort . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be a statement of a certain legend which run in the 
      Baskerville family . " 

      " but -PRON- understand that -PRON- be something more modern and practical upon 
      which -PRON- wish to consult -PRON- ? " 

      " most modern . a most practical , press matter , which must be 
      decide within twenty - four hour . but the manuscript be short and be 
      intimately connect with the affair . with -PRON- permission -PRON- will 
      read -PRON- to -PRON- . " 

      Holmes lean back in -PRON- chair , place -PRON- finger - tip together , and 
      close -PRON- eye , with an air of resignation . Dr. Mortimer turn the 
      manuscript to the light and read in a high , crack voice the 
      follow curious , old - world narrative:-- 

      " of the origin of the Hound of the baskerville there have be many 
      statement , yet as -PRON- come in a direct line from Hugo Baskerville , and 
      as -PRON- have the story from -PRON- father , who also have -PRON- from -PRON- , -PRON- have 
      set -PRON- down with all belief that -PRON- occur even as be here set 
      forth . and -PRON- would have -PRON- believe , -PRON- son , that the same justice 
      which punish sin may also most graciously forgive -PRON- , and that no 
      ban be so heavy but that by prayer and repentance -PRON- may be remove . 
      learn then from this story not to fear the fruit of the past , but 
      rather to be circumspect in the future , that those foul passion 
      whereby -PRON- family have suffer so grievously may not again be loose 
      to -PRON- undoing . 

      " know then that in the time of the Great Rebellion ( the history of 
      which by the learn Lord Clarendon -PRON- most earnestly commend to -PRON- 
      attention ) this Manor of Baskerville be hold by Hugo of that name , 
      nor can -PRON- be gainsaid that -PRON- be a most wild , profane , and godless 
      man . this , in truth , -PRON- neighbour may have pardon , see that 
      saint have never flourish in those part , but there be in -PRON- a 
      certain wanton and cruel humour which make -PRON- name a byword through 
      the West . -PRON- chance that this Hugo come to love ( if , indeed , so dark 
      a passion may be know under so bright a name ) the daughter of a 
      yeoman who hold land near the Baskerville estate . but the young 
      maiden , be discreet and of good repute , would ever avoid -PRON- , for 
      -PRON- fear -PRON- evil name . so -PRON- come to pass that one Michaelmas this 
      Hugo , with five or six of -PRON- idle and wicked companion , steal down 
      upon the farm and carry off the maiden , -PRON- father and brother 
      be from home , as -PRON- well know . when -PRON- have bring -PRON- to the 
      Hall the maiden be place in an upper chamber , while Hugo and -PRON- 
      friend sit down to a long carouse , as be -PRON- nightly custom . now , 
      the poor lass upstairs be like to have -PRON- wit turn at the 
      singe and shouting and terrible oath which come up to -PRON- from 
      below , for -PRON- say that the word use by Hugo Baskerville , when -PRON- 
      be in wine , be such as may blast the man who say -PRON- . at last 
      in the stress of -PRON- fear -PRON- do that which may have daunt the 
      brave or most active man , for by the aid of the growth of ivy which 
      cover ( and still cover ) the south wall -PRON- come down from under 
      the eave , and so homeward across the moor , there be three league 
      betwixt the Hall and -PRON- father 's farm . 

      " -PRON- chance that some little time later Hugo leave -PRON- guest to carry 
      food and drink -- with other bad thing , perchance -- to -PRON- captive , 
      and so find the cage empty and the bird escape . then , as -PRON- would 
      seem , -PRON- become as one that hath a devil , for , rush down the 
      stair into the dining - hall , -PRON- spring upon the great table , flagon 
      and trencher fly before -PRON- , and -PRON- cry aloud before all the 
      company that -PRON- would that very night render -PRON- body and soul to the 
      Powers of Evil if -PRON- may but overtake the wench . and while the 
      reveller stand aghast at the fury of the man , one more wicked or , -PRON- 
      may be , more drunken than the rest , cry out that -PRON- should put 
      the hound upon -PRON- . Whereat Hugo run from the house , cry to -PRON- 
      groom that -PRON- should saddle -PRON- mare and unkennel the pack , and 
      give the hound a kerchief of the maid 's , -PRON- swing -PRON- to the 
      line , and so off full cry in the moonlight over the moor . 

      " now , for some space the reveller stand agape , unable to understand 
      all that have be do in such haste . but anon -PRON- bemused wit 
      awake to the nature of the deed which be like to be do upon the 
      moorland . everything be now in an uproar , some call for -PRON- 
      pistol , some for -PRON- horse , and some for another flask of wine . 
      but at length some sense come back to -PRON- craze mind , and the 
      whole of -PRON- , thirteen in number , take horse and start in pursuit . 
      the moon shine clear above -PRON- , and -PRON- ride swiftly abreast , 
      take that course which the maid must need have take if -PRON- be 
      to reach -PRON- own home . 

      " -PRON- have go a mile or two when -PRON- pass one of the night 
      shepherd upon the moorland , and -PRON- cry to -PRON- to know if -PRON- have 
      see the hunt . and the man , as the story go , be so craze with 
      fear that -PRON- could scarce speak , but at last -PRON- say that -PRON- have 
      indeed see the unhappy maiden , with the hound upon -PRON- track . ' but 
      -PRON- have see more than that , ' say -PRON- , ' for Hugo Baskerville pass -PRON- 
      upon -PRON- black mare , and there run mute behind -PRON- such a hound of 
      hell as God forbid should ever be at -PRON- heel . ' so the drunken 
      squire curse the shepherd and ride onward . but soon -PRON- skin 
      turn cold , for there come a galloping across the moor , and the 
      black mare , dabble with white froth , go past with trail bridle 
      and empty saddle . then the reveller ride close together , for a great 
      fear be on -PRON- , but -PRON- still follow over the moor , though each , 
      have -PRON- be alone , would have be right glad to have turn -PRON- 
      horse 's head . ride slowly in this fashion -PRON- come at last upon 
      the hound . these , though know for -PRON- valour and -PRON- breed , 
      be whimper in a cluster at the head of a deep dip or goyal , as 
      -PRON- call -PRON- , upon the moor , some slinking away and some , with start 
      hackle and stare eye , gaze down the narrow valley before -PRON- . 

      " the company have come to a halt , more sober man , as -PRON- may guess , 
      than when -PRON- start . the most of -PRON- would by no means advance , 
      but three of -PRON- , the bold , or -PRON- may be the most drunken , ride 
      forward down the goyal . now , -PRON- open into a broad space in which 
      stand two of those great stone , still to be see there , which be 
      set by certain forget people in the day of old . the moon be 
      shine bright upon the clearing , and there in the centre lie the 
      unhappy maid where -PRON- have fall , dead of fear and of fatigue . but 
      -PRON- be not the sight of -PRON- body , nor yet be -PRON- that of the body of 
      Hugo Baskerville lie near -PRON- , which raise the hair upon the head 
      of these three daredevil roysterer , but -PRON- be that , stand over 
      Hugo , and plucking at -PRON- throat , there stand a foul thing , a great , 
      black beast , shape like a hound , yet large than any hound that ever 
      mortal eye have rest upon . and even as -PRON- look the thing tear 
      the throat out of Hugo Baskerville , on which , as -PRON- turn -PRON- 
      blaze eye and drip jaw upon -PRON- , the three shriek with 
      fear and ride for dear life , still scream , across the moor . one , 
      -PRON- be say , die that very night of what -PRON- have see , and the other 
      twain be but break man for the rest of -PRON- day . 

      " such be the tale , -PRON- son , of the coming of the hound which be say 
      to have plague the family so sorely ever since . if -PRON- have set -PRON- 
      down -PRON- be because that which be clearly know hath less terror than 
      that which be but hint at and guess . nor can -PRON- be deny that 
      many of the family have be unhappy in -PRON- death , which have be 
      sudden , bloody , and mysterious . yet may -PRON- shelter -PRON- in the 
      infinite goodness of Providence , which would not forever punish the 
      innocent beyond that third or fourth generation which be threaten 
      in Holy Writ . to that Providence , -PRON- son , -PRON- hereby commend -PRON- , and 
      -PRON- counsel -PRON- by way of caution to forbear from cross the moor in 
      those dark hour when the power of evil be exalt . 

      " [ this from Hugo Baskerville to -PRON- son Rodger and John , with 
      instruction that -PRON- say nothing thereof to -PRON- sister 
      Elizabeth . ] " 

      when Dr. Mortimer have finish read this singular narrative -PRON- 
      push -PRON- spectacle up on -PRON- forehead and stare across at Mr. 
      Sherlock Holmes . the latter yawn and toss the end of -PRON- 
      cigarette into the fire . 

      " well ? " say -PRON- . 

      " do -PRON- not find -PRON- interesting ? " 

      " to a collector of fairy tale . " 

      Dr. Mortimer draw a fold newspaper out of -PRON- pocket . 

      " now , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- will give -PRON- something a little more recent . 
      this be the Devon County Chronicle of May 14th of this year . -PRON- be a 
      short account of the fact elicit at the death of Sir Charles 
      Baskerville which occur a few day before that date . " 

      -PRON- friend lean a little forward and -PRON- expression become intent . 
      -PRON- visitor readjust -PRON- glass and began:-- 

      " the recent sudden death of Sir Charles Baskerville , whose name have 
      be mention as the probable liberal candidate for Mid - Devon at the 
      next election , have cast a gloom over the county . though Sir Charles 
      have reside at Baskerville Hall for a comparatively short period -PRON- 
      amiability of character and extreme generosity have win the affection 
      and respect of all who have be bring into contact with -PRON- . in 
      these day of nouveaux riches -PRON- be refreshing to find a case where 
      the scion of an old county family which have fall upon evil day be 
      able to make -PRON- own fortune and to bring -PRON- back with -PRON- to restore 
      the fall grandeur of -PRON- line . Sir Charles , as be well know , make 
      large sum of money in south african speculation . more wise than 
      those who go on until the wheel turn against -PRON- , -PRON- realize -PRON- 
      gain and return to England with -PRON- . -PRON- be only two year since 
      -PRON- take up -PRON- residence at Baskerville Hall , and -PRON- be common talk 
      how large be those scheme of reconstruction and improvement which 
      have be interrupt by -PRON- death . be -PRON- childless , -PRON- be 
      -PRON- openly express desire that the whole country - side should , 
      within -PRON- own lifetime , profit by -PRON- good fortune , and many will 
      have personal reason for bewail -PRON- untimely end . -PRON- generous 
      donation to local and county charity have be frequently 
      chronicle in these column . 

      " the circumstance connect with the death of Sir Charles can not be 
      say to have be entirely clear up by the inquest , but at least 
      enough have be do to dispose of those rumour to which local 
      superstition have give rise . there be no reason whatever to suspect 
      foul play , or to imagine that death could be from any but natural 
      cause . Sir Charles be a widower , and a man who may be say to have 
      be in some way of an eccentric habit of mind . in spite of -PRON- 
      considerable wealth -PRON- be simple in -PRON- personal taste , and -PRON- 
      indoor servant at Baskerville Hall consist of a married couple 
      name Barrymore , the husband act as butler and the wife as 
      housekeeper . -PRON- evidence , corroborate by that of several friend , 
      tend to show that Sir Charles 's health have for some time be 
      impair , and point especially to some affection of the heart , 
      manifest -PRON- in change of colour , breathlessness , and acute 
      attack of nervous depression . Dr. James Mortimer , the friend and 
      medical attendant of the deceased , have give evidence to the same 
      effect . 

      " the fact of the case be simple . Sir Charles Baskerville be in the 
      habit every night before go to bed of walk down the famous Yew 
      Alley of Baskerville Hall . the evidence of the Barrymores show that 
      this have be -PRON- custom . on the 4th of May Sir Charles have declare 
      -PRON- intention of start next day for London , and have order 
      Barrymore to prepare -PRON- luggage . that night -PRON- go out as usual for 
      -PRON- nocturnal walk , in the course of which -PRON- be in the habit of 
      smoke a cigar . -PRON- never return . at twelve o'clock Barrymore , 
      find the hall door still open , become alarmed , and , light a 
      lantern , go in search of -PRON- master . the day have be wet , and Sir 
      Charles 's footmark be easily trace down the Alley . half - way down 
      this walk there be a gate which lead out on to the moor . there be 
      indication that Sir Charles have stand for some little time here . -PRON- 
      then proceed down the Alley , and -PRON- be at the far end of -PRON- that 
      -PRON- body be discover . one fact which have not be explain be the 
      statement of Barrymore that -PRON- master 's footprint alter -PRON- 
      character from the time that -PRON- pass the moor - gate , and that -PRON- 
      appear from thence onward to have be walk upon -PRON- toe . one 
      Murphy , a gipsy horse - dealer , be on the moor at no great distance at 
      the time , but -PRON- appear by -PRON- own confession to have be the bad 
      for drink . -PRON- declare that -PRON- hear cry , but be unable to state 
      from what direction -PRON- come . no sign of violence be to be 
      discover upon Sir Charles 's person , and though the doctor 's 
      evidence point to an almost incredible facial distortion -- so great 
      that Dr. Mortimer refuse at first to believe that -PRON- be indeed -PRON- 
      friend and patient who lie before -PRON- -- -PRON- be explain that that be 
      a symptom which be not unusual in case of dyspnoea and death from 
      cardiac exhaustion . this explanation be bear out by the post - mortem 
      examination , which show long - stand organic disease , and the 
      coroner 's jury return a verdict in accordance with the medical 
      evidence . -PRON- be well that this be so , for -PRON- be obviously of the 
      utmost importance that Sir Charles 's heir should settle at the Hall 
      and continue the good work which have be so sadly interrupted . have 
      the prosaic finding of the coroner not finally put an end to the 
      romantic story which have be whisper in connection with the 
      affair , -PRON- may have be difficult to find a tenant for Baskerville 
      Hall . -PRON- be understand that the next of kin be Mr. Henry Baskerville , 
      if -PRON- be still alive , the son of Sir Charles Baskerville 's young 
      brother . the young man when last hear of be in America , and 
      inquiry be be institute with a view to inform -PRON- of -PRON- 
      good fortune . " 

      Dr. Mortimer refolde -PRON- paper and replace -PRON- in -PRON- pocket . 

      " those be the public fact , Mr. Holmes , in connection with the death 
      of Sir Charles Baskerville . " 

      " -PRON- must thank -PRON- , " say Sherlock Holmes , " for call -PRON- attention 
      to a case which certainly present some feature of interest . -PRON- have 
      observe some newspaper comment at the time , but -PRON- be exceedingly 
      preoccupy by that little affair of the Vatican cameo , and in -PRON- 
      anxiety to oblige the Pope -PRON- lose touch with several interesting 
      english case . this article , -PRON- say , contain all the public fact ? " 

      " -PRON- do . " 

      " then let -PRON- have the private one . " -PRON- lean back , put -PRON- 
      finger - tip together , and assume -PRON- most impassive and judicial 
      expression . 

      " in do so , " say Dr. Mortimer , who have begin to show sign of some 
      strong emotion , " -PRON- be tell that which -PRON- have not confide to 
      anyone . -PRON- motive for withhold -PRON- from the coroner 's inquiry be 
      that a man of science shrink from place -PRON- in the public 
      position of seem to indorse a popular superstition . -PRON- have the 
      further motive that Baskerville Hall , as the paper say , would 
      certainly remain untenanted if anything be do to increase -PRON- 
      already rather grim reputation . for both these reason -PRON- think that 
      -PRON- be justified in tell rather less than -PRON- know , since no 
      practical good could result from -PRON- , but with -PRON- there be no reason 
      why -PRON- should not be perfectly frank . 

      " the moor be very sparsely inhabit , and those who live near each 
      other be throw very much together . for this reason -PRON- see a good 
      deal of Sir Charles Baskerville . with the exception of Mr. Frankland , 
      of Lafter Hall , and Mr. Stapleton , the naturalist , there be no other 
      man of education within many mile . Sir Charles be a retire man , 
      but the chance of -PRON- illness bring -PRON- together , and a community of 
      interest in science keep -PRON- so . -PRON- have bring back much scientific 
      information from South Africa , and many a charming evening -PRON- have 
      spend together discuss the comparative anatomy of the Bushman and 
      the Hottentot . 

      " within the last few month -PRON- become increasingly plain to -PRON- that 
      Sir Charles 's nervous system be strain to the breaking point . -PRON- 
      have take this legend which -PRON- have read -PRON- exceedingly to heart -- so 
      much so that , although -PRON- would walk in -PRON- own ground , nothing 
      would induce -PRON- to go out upon the moor at night . incredible as -PRON- 
      may appear to -PRON- , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- be honestly convince that a 
      dreadful fate overhang -PRON- family , and certainly the record which -PRON- 
      be able to give of -PRON- ancestor be not encouraging . the idea of 
      some ghastly presence constantly haunt -PRON- , and on more than one 
      occasion -PRON- have ask -PRON- whether -PRON- have on -PRON- medical journey at 
      night ever see any strange creature or hear the baying of a hound . 
      the latter question -PRON- put to -PRON- several time , and always with a 
      voice which vibrate with excitement . 

      " -PRON- can well remember drive up to -PRON- house in the evening some 
      three week before the fatal event . -PRON- chance to be at -PRON- hall 
      door . -PRON- have descend from -PRON- gig and be stand in front of -PRON- , 
      when -PRON- see -PRON- eye fix -PRON- over -PRON- shoulder , and stare past 
      -PRON- with an expression of the most dreadful horror . -PRON- whisk round 
      and have just time to catch a glimpse of something which -PRON- take to be 
      a large black calf pass at the head of the drive . so excited and 
      alarm be -PRON- that -PRON- be compel to go down to the spot where the 
      animal have be and look around for -PRON- . -PRON- be go , however , and the 
      incident appear to make the bad impression upon -PRON- mind . -PRON- 
      stay with -PRON- all the evening , and -PRON- be on that occasion , to 
      explain the emotion which -PRON- have show , that -PRON- confide to -PRON- 
      keep that narrative which -PRON- read to -PRON- when first -PRON- come . -PRON- 
      mention this small episode because -PRON- assume some importance in view 
      of the tragedy which follow , but -PRON- be convince at the time that 
      the matter be entirely trivial and that -PRON- excitement have no 
      justification . 

      " -PRON- be at -PRON- advice that Sir Charles be about to go to London . -PRON- 
      heart be , -PRON- know , affect , and the constant anxiety in which -PRON- 
      live , however chimerical the cause of -PRON- may be , be evidently 
      have a serious effect upon -PRON- health . -PRON- think that a few month 
      among the distraction of town would send -PRON- back a new man . Mr. 
      Stapleton , a mutual friend who be much concerned at -PRON- state of 
      health , be of the same opinion . at the last instant come this 
      terrible catastrophe . 

      " on the night of Sir Charles 's death Barrymore the butler , who make 
      the discovery , send Perkins the groom on horseback to -PRON- , and as -PRON- 
      be sit up late -PRON- be able to reach Baskerville Hall within an 
      hour of the event . -PRON- check and corroborate all the fact which 
      be mention at the inquest . -PRON- follow the footstep down the Yew 
      Alley , -PRON- see the spot at the moor - gate where -PRON- seem to have 
      wait , -PRON- remark the change in the shape of the print after that 
      point , -PRON- note that there be no other footstep save those of 
      Barrymore on the soft gravel , and finally -PRON- carefully examine the 
      body , which have not be touch until -PRON- arrival . Sir Charles lie on 
      -PRON- face , -PRON- arm out , -PRON- finger dig into the ground , and -PRON- 
      feature convulse with some strong emotion to such an extent that -PRON- 
      could hardly have swear to -PRON- identity . there be certainly no 
      physical injury of any kind . but one false statement be make by 
      Barrymore at the inquest . -PRON- say that there be no trace upon the 
      ground round the body . -PRON- do not observe any . but -PRON- do -- some little 
      distance off , but fresh and clear . " 

      " footprint ? " 

      " footprint . " 

      " a man 's or a woman 's ? " 

      Dr. Mortimer look strangely at -PRON- for an instant , and -PRON- voice 
      sink almost to a whisper as -PRON- answered:-- 

      " Mr. Holmes , -PRON- be the footprint of a gigantic hound ! " 





           CHAPTER III 
           the Problem 


      -PRON- confess at these word a shudder pass through -PRON- . there be a 
      thrill in the doctor 's voice which show that -PRON- be -PRON- deeply 
      move by that which -PRON- tell -PRON- . Holmes lean forward in -PRON- 
      excitement and -PRON- eye have the hard , dry glitter which shoot from 
      -PRON- when -PRON- be keenly interested . 

      " -PRON- see this ? " 

      " as clearly as -PRON- see -PRON- . " 

      " and -PRON- say nothing ? " 

      " what be the use ? " 

      " how be -PRON- that no one else see -PRON- ? " 

      " the mark be some twenty yard from the body and no one give -PRON- 
      a thought . -PRON- do not suppose -PRON- should have do so have -PRON- not know this 
      legend . " 

      " there be many sheep - dog on the moor ? " 

      " no doubt , but this be no sheep - dog . " 

      " -PRON- say -PRON- be large ? " 

      " enormous . " 

      " but -PRON- have not approach the body ? " 

      " no . " 

      " what sort of night be -PRON- ? " 

      " damp and raw . " 

      " but not actually rain ? " 

      " no . " 

      " what be the Alley like ? " 

      " there be two line of old yew hedge , twelve foot high and 
      impenetrable . the walk in the centre be about eight foot across . " 

      " be there anything between the hedge and the walk ? " 

      " yes , there be a strip of grass about six foot broad on either side . " 

      " -PRON- understand that the yew hedge be penetrate at one point by a 
      gate ? " 

      " yes , the wicket - gate which lead on to the moor . " 

      " be there any other opening ? " 

      " none . " 

      " so that to reach the Yew Alley one either have to come down -PRON- from 
      the house or else to enter -PRON- by the moor - gate ? " 

      " there be an exit through a summer - house at the far end . " 

      " have Sir Charles reach this ? " 

      " no ; -PRON- lie about fifty yard from -PRON- . " 

      " now , tell -PRON- , Dr. Mortimer -- and this be important -- the mark which 
      -PRON- see be on the path and not on the grass ? " 

      " no mark could show on the grass . " 

      " be -PRON- on the same side of the path as the moor - gate ? " 

      " yes ; -PRON- be on the edge of the path on the same side as the 
      moor - gate . " 

      " -PRON- interest -PRON- exceedingly . another point . be the wicket - gate 
      closed ? " 

      " closed and padlock . " 

      " how high be -PRON- ? " 

      " about four foot high . " 

      " then anyone could have get over -PRON- ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " and what mark do -PRON- see by the wicket - gate ? " 

      " none in particular . " 

      " Good heaven ! do no one examine ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- examine -PRON- . " 

      " and find nothing ? " 

      " -PRON- be all very confused . Sir Charles have evidently stand there for 
      five or ten minute . " 

      " how do -PRON- know that ? " 

      " because the ash have twice drop from -PRON- cigar . " 

      " excellent ! this be a colleague , Watson , after -PRON- own heart . but the 
      mark ? " 

      " -PRON- have leave -PRON- own mark all over that small patch of gravel . -PRON- 
      could discern no other . " 

      Sherlock Holmes strike -PRON- hand against -PRON- knee with an impatient 
      gesture . 

      " if -PRON- have only be there ! " -PRON- cry . " -PRON- be evidently a case of 
      extraordinary interest , and one which present immense opportunity 
      to the scientific expert . that gravel page upon which -PRON- may have 
      read so much have be long ere this smudge by the rain and deface 
      by the clog of curious peasant . oh , Dr. Mortimer , Dr. Mortimer , to 
      think that -PRON- should not have call -PRON- in ! -PRON- have indeed much to 
      answer for . " 

      " -PRON- could not call -PRON- in , Mr. Holmes , without disclose these fact 
      to the world , and -PRON- have already give -PRON- reason for not wish to 
      do so . besides , besides-- " 

      " why do -PRON- hesitate ? " 

      " there be a realm in which the most acute and most experienced of 
      detective be helpless . " 

      " -PRON- mean that the thing be supernatural ? " 

      " -PRON- do not positively say so . " 

      " no , but -PRON- evidently think -PRON- . " 

      " since the tragedy , Mr. Holmes , there have come to -PRON- ear several 
      incident which be hard to reconcile with the settle order of 
      nature . " 

      " for example ? " 

      " -PRON- find that before the terrible event occur several people have 
      see a creature upon the moor which correspond with this Baskerville 
      demon , and which could not possibly be any animal know to science . 
      -PRON- all agree that -PRON- be a huge creature , luminous , ghastly , and 
      spectral . -PRON- have cros - examine these man , one of -PRON- a hard - head 
      countryman , one a farrier , and one a moorland farmer , who all tell 
      the same story of this dreadful apparition , exactly correspond to 
      the hell - hound of the legend . -PRON- assure -PRON- that there be a reign of 
      terror in the district , and that -PRON- be a hardy man who will cross the 
      moor at night . " 

      " and -PRON- , a train man of science , believe -PRON- to be supernatural ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know what to believe . " 

      Holmes shrug -PRON- shoulder . 

      " -PRON- have hitherto confine -PRON- investigation to this world , " say -PRON- . 
      " in a modest way -PRON- have combat evil , but to take on the Father of 
      evil -PRON- would , perhaps , be too ambitious a task . yet -PRON- must 
      admit that the footmark be material . " 

      " the original hound be material enough to tug a man 's throat out , 
      and yet -PRON- be diabolical as well . " 

      " -PRON- see that -PRON- have quite go over to the supernaturalist . but 
      now , Dr. Mortimer , tell -PRON- this . if -PRON- hold these view , why have 
      -PRON- come to consult -PRON- at all ? -PRON- tell -PRON- in the same breath that -PRON- 
      be useless to investigate Sir Charles 's death , and that -PRON- desire -PRON- 
      to do -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- do not say that -PRON- desire -PRON- to do -PRON- . " 

      " then , how can -PRON- assist -PRON- ? " 

      " by advise -PRON- as to what -PRON- should do with Sir Henry Baskerville , 
      who arrive at Waterloo Station"--Dr . Mortimer look at -PRON- 
      watch--"in exactly one hour and a quarter . " 

      " -PRON- be the heir ? " 

      " yes . on the death of Sir Charles -PRON- inquire for this young 
      gentleman and find that -PRON- have be farm in Canada . from the 
      account which have reach -PRON- -PRON- be an excellent fellow in every 
      way . -PRON- speak not as a medical man but as a trustee and executor of 
      Sir Charles 's will . " 

      " there be no other claimant , -PRON- presume ? " 

      " none . the only other kinsman whom -PRON- have be able to trace be 
      Rodger Baskerville , the young of three brother of whom poor Sir 
      Charles be the elder . the second brother , who die young , be the 
      father of this lad Henry . the third , Rodger , be the black sheep of 
      the family . -PRON- come of the old masterful Baskerville strain , and be 
      the very image , -PRON- tell -PRON- , of the family picture of old Hugo . -PRON- 
      make England too hot to hold -PRON- , flee to Central America , and die 
      there in 1876 of yellow fever . Henry be the last of the Baskervilles . 
      in one hour and five minute -PRON- meet -PRON- at Waterloo Station . -PRON- have 
      have a wire that -PRON- arrive at Southampton this morning . now , Mr. 
      Holmes , what would -PRON- advise -PRON- to do with -PRON- ? " 

      " why should -PRON- not go to the home of -PRON- father ? " 

      " -PRON- seem natural , do -PRON- not ? and yet , consider that every 
      Baskerville who go there meet with an evil fate . -PRON- feel sure that 
      if Sir Charles could have speak with -PRON- before -PRON- death -PRON- would 
      have warn -PRON- against bring this , the last of the old race , and 
      the heir to great wealth , to that deadly place . and yet -PRON- can not be 
      deny that the prosperity of the whole poor , bleak country - side 
      depend upon -PRON- presence . all the good work which have be do by 
      Sir Charles will crash to the ground if there be no tenant of the 
      Hall . -PRON- fear lest -PRON- should be sway too much by -PRON- own obvious 
      interest in the matter , and that be why -PRON- bring the case before -PRON- 
      and ask for -PRON- advice . " 

      Holmes consider for a little time . 

      " put into plain word , the matter be this , " say -PRON- . " in -PRON- opinion 
      there be a diabolical agency which make Dartmoor an unsafe abode for 
      a Baskerville -- that be -PRON- opinion ? " 

      " at least -PRON- may go the length of say that there be some evidence 
      that this may be so . " 

      " exactly . but surely , if -PRON- supernatural theory be correct , -PRON- 
      could work the young man evil in London as easily as in Devonshire . a 
      devil with merely local power like a parish vestry would be too 
      inconceivable a thing . " 

      " -PRON- put the matter more flippantly , Mr. Holmes , than -PRON- would 
      probably do if -PRON- be bring into personal contact with these 
      thing . -PRON- advice , then , as -PRON- understand -PRON- , be that the young man 
      will be as safe in Devonshire as in London . -PRON- come in fifty 
      minute . what would -PRON- recommend ? " 

      " -PRON- recommend , sir , that -PRON- take a cab , call off -PRON- spaniel who be 
      scratch at -PRON- front door , and proceed to Waterloo to meet Sir 
      Henry Baskerville . " 

      " and then ? " 

      " and then -PRON- will say nothing to -PRON- at all until -PRON- have make up -PRON- 
      mind about the matter . " 

      " how long will -PRON- take -PRON- to make up -PRON- mind ? " 

      " twenty - four hour . at ten o'clock to - morrow , Dr. Mortimer , -PRON- will be 
      much oblige to -PRON- if -PRON- will call upon -PRON- here , and -PRON- will be of 
      help to -PRON- in -PRON- plan for the future if -PRON- will bring Sir Henry 
      Baskerville with -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- will do so , Mr. Holmes . " -PRON- scribble the appointment on -PRON- 
      shirtcuff and hurry off in -PRON- strange , peer , absent - minded 
      fashion . Holmes stop -PRON- at the head of the stair . 

      " only one more question , Dr. Mortimer . -PRON- say that before Sir 
      Charles Baskerville 's death several people see this apparition upon 
      the moor ? " 

      " three people do . " 

      " do any see -PRON- after ? " 

      " -PRON- have not hear of any . " 

      " thank -PRON- . good morning . " 

      Holmes return to -PRON- seat with that quiet look of inward 
      satisfaction which mean that -PRON- have a congenial task before -PRON- . 

      " go out , Watson ? " 

      " unless -PRON- can help -PRON- . " 

      " no , -PRON- dear fellow , -PRON- be at the hour of action that -PRON- turn to -PRON- 
      for aid . but this be splendid , really unique from some point of 
      view . when -PRON- pass Bradley 's , would -PRON- ask -PRON- to send up a pound 
      of the strong shag tobacco ? thank -PRON- . -PRON- would be as well if -PRON- 
      could make -PRON- convenient not to return before evening . then -PRON- should 
      be very glad to compare impression as to this most interesting 
      problem which have be submit to -PRON- this morning . " 

      -PRON- know that seclusion and solitude be very necessary for -PRON- friend 
      in those hour of intense mental concentration during which -PRON- 
      weigh every particle of evidence , construct alternative theory , 
      balance one against the other , and make up -PRON- mind as to which 
      point be essential and which immaterial . -PRON- therefore spend the day 
      at -PRON- club and do not return to Baker Street until evening . -PRON- be 
      nearly nine o'clock when -PRON- find -PRON- in the sitting - room once 
      more . 

      -PRON- first impression as -PRON- open the door be that a fire have break 
      out , for the room be so fill with smoke that the light of the lamp 
      upon the table be blur by -PRON- . as -PRON- enter , however , -PRON- fear 
      be set at rest , for -PRON- be the acrid fume of strong coarse tobacco 
      which take -PRON- by the throat and set -PRON- cough . through the haze -PRON- 
      have a vague vision of Holmes in -PRON- dressing - gown coil up in an 
      armchair with -PRON- black clay pipe between -PRON- lip . several roll of 
      paper lie around -PRON- . 

      " catch cold , Watson ? " say -PRON- . 

      " no , -PRON- be this poisonous atmosphere . " 

      " -PRON- suppose -PRON- be pretty thick , now that -PRON- mention -PRON- . " 

      " Thick ! -PRON- be intolerable . " 

      " open the window , then ! -PRON- have be at -PRON- club all day , -PRON- 
      perceive . " 

      " -PRON- dear Holmes ! " 

      " be -PRON- right ? " 

      " certainly , but how ? " 

      -PRON- laugh at -PRON- bewildered expression . 

      " there be a delightful freshness about -PRON- , Watson , which make -PRON- a 
      pleasure to exercise any small power which -PRON- possess at -PRON- 
      expense . a gentleman go forth on a showery and miry day . -PRON- return 
      immaculate in the evening with the gloss still on -PRON- hat and -PRON- 
      boot . -PRON- have be a fixture therefore all day . -PRON- be not a man with 
      intimate friend . where , then , could -PRON- have be ? be -PRON- not 
      obvious ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be rather obvious . " 

      " the world be full of obvious thing which nobody by any chance ever 
      observe . where do -PRON- think that -PRON- have be ? " 

      " a fixture also . " 

      " on the contrary , -PRON- have be to Devonshire . " 

      " in spirit ? " 

      " exactly . -PRON- body have remain in this arm - chair and have , -PRON- regret to 
      observe , consume in -PRON- absence two large pot of coffee and an 
      incredible amount of tobacco . after -PRON- leave -PRON- send down to 
      Stamford 's for the ordnance map of this portion of the moor , and -PRON- 
      spirit have hover over -PRON- all day . -PRON- flatter -PRON- that -PRON- could 
      find -PRON- way about . " 

      " a large scale map , -PRON- presume ? " 

      " very large . " -PRON- unroll one section and hold -PRON- over -PRON- knee . 
      " here -PRON- have the particular district which concern -PRON- . that be 
      Baskerville Hall in the middle . " 

      " with a wood round -PRON- ? " 

      " exactly . -PRON- fancy the Yew Alley , though not mark under that name , 
      must stretch along this line , with the moor , as -PRON- perceive , upon 
      the right of -PRON- . this small clump of building here be the hamlet of 
      Grimpen , where -PRON- friend Dr. Mortimer have -PRON- headquarter . within a 
      radius of five mile there be , as -PRON- see , only a very few scatter 
      dwelling . here be Lafter Hall , which be mention in the narrative . 
      there be a house indicate here which may be the residence of the 
      naturalist -- Stapleton , if -PRON- remember right , be -PRON- name . here be 
      two moorland farm - house , High Tor and Foulmire . then fourteen mile 
      away the great convict prison of Princetown . between and around these 
      scatter point extend the desolate , lifeless moor . this , then , be 
      the stage upon which tragedy have be play , and upon which -PRON- may 
      help to play -PRON- again . " 

      " -PRON- must be a wild place . " 

      " yes , the setting be a worthy one . if the devil do desire to have a 
      hand in the affair of men-- " 

      " then -PRON- be -PRON- incline to the supernatural explanation . " 

      " the devil 's agent may be of flesh and blood , may -PRON- not ? there 
      be two question wait for -PRON- at the outset . the one be whether 
      any crime have be commit at all ; the second be , what be the crime 
      and how be -PRON- commit ? of course , if Dr. Mortimer 's surmise should 
      be correct , and -PRON- be deal with force outside the ordinary law 
      of Nature , there be an end of -PRON- investigation . but -PRON- be bind to 
      exhaust all other hypothesis before fall back upon this one . -PRON- 
      think -PRON- will shut that window again , if -PRON- do not mind . -PRON- be a 
      singular thing , but -PRON- find that a concentrated atmosphere help a 
      concentration of thought . -PRON- have not push -PRON- to the length of 
      get into a box to think , but that be the logical outcome of -PRON- 
      conviction . have -PRON- turn the case over in -PRON- mind ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- have think a good deal of -PRON- in the course of the day . " 

      " what do -PRON- make of -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be very bewildering . " 

      " -PRON- have certainly a character of -PRON- own . there be point of 
      distinction about -PRON- . that change in the footprint , for example . 
      what do -PRON- make of that ? " 

      " Mortimer say that the man have walk on tiptoe down that portion of 
      the alley . " 

      " -PRON- only repeat what some fool have say at the inquest . why should 
      a man walk on tiptoe down the alley ? " 

      " what then ? " 

      " -PRON- be run , Watson -- run desperately , run for -PRON- life , 
      run until -PRON- burst -PRON- heart and fall dead upon -PRON- face . " 

      " run from what ? " 

      " there lie -PRON- problem . there be indication that the man be 
      craze with fear before ever -PRON- begin to run . " 

      " how can -PRON- say that ? " 

      " -PRON- be presume that the cause of -PRON- fear come to -PRON- across the 
      moor . if that be so , and -PRON- seem most probable , only a man who have 
      lose -PRON- wit would have run from the house instead of towards -PRON- . if 
      the gipsy 's evidence may be take as true , -PRON- run with cry for help 
      in the direction where help be least likely to be . then , again , whom 
      be -PRON- wait for that night , and why be -PRON- wait for -PRON- in the 
      Yew Alley rather than in -PRON- own house ? " 

      " -PRON- think that -PRON- be wait for someone ? " 

      " the man be elderly and infirm . -PRON- can understand -PRON- take an 
      evening stroll , but the ground be damp and the night inclement . be 
      -PRON- natural that -PRON- should stand for five or ten minute , as Dr. 
      Mortimer , with more practical sense than -PRON- should have give -PRON- 
      credit for , deduce from the cigar ash ? " 

      " but -PRON- go out every evening . " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- unlikely that -PRON- wait at the moor - gate every evening . 
      on the contrary , the evidence be that -PRON- avoid the moor . that night 
      -PRON- wait there . -PRON- be the night before -PRON- make -PRON- departure for 
      London . the thing take shape , Watson . -PRON- become coherent . may -PRON- 
      ask -PRON- to hand -PRON- -PRON- violin , and -PRON- will postpone all further 
      think upon this business until -PRON- have have the advantage of meeting 
      Dr. Mortimer and Sir Henry Baskerville in the morning . " 





           CHAPTER IV 
           Sir Henry Baskerville 


      -PRON- breakfast - table be clear early , and Holmes wait in -PRON- 
      dressing - gown for the promised interview . -PRON- client be punctual 
      to -PRON- appointment , for the clock have just strike ten when Dr. 
      Mortimer be show up , follow by the young baronet . the latter be 
      a small , alert , dark - eyed man about thirty year of age , very 
      sturdily build , with thick black eyebrow and a strong , pugnacious 
      face . -PRON- wear a ruddy - tint tweed suit and have the weather - beat 
      appearance of one who have spend most of -PRON- time in the open air , and 
      yet there be something in -PRON- steady eye and the quiet assurance of 
      -PRON- bearing which indicate the gentleman . 

      " this be Sir Henry Baskerville , " say Dr. Mortimer . 

      " why , yes , " say -PRON- , " and the strange thing be , Mr. Sherlock Holmes , 
      that if -PRON- friend here have not propose come round to -PRON- this 
      morning -PRON- should have come on -PRON- own account . -PRON- understand that -PRON- 
      think out little puzzle , and -PRON- have have one this morning which want 
      more think out than -PRON- be able to give -PRON- . " 

      " pray take a seat , Sir Henry . do -PRON- understand -PRON- to say that -PRON- 
      have -PRON- have some remarkable experience since -PRON- arrive in 
      London ? " 

      " nothing of much importance , Mr. Holmes . only a joke , as like as not . 
      -PRON- be this letter , if -PRON- can call -PRON- a letter , which reach -PRON- 
      this morning . " 

      -PRON- lay an envelope upon the table , and -PRON- all bent over -PRON- . -PRON- be 
      of common quality , grayish in colour . the address , " Sir Henry 
      Baskerville , Northumberland Hotel , " be print in rough character ; 
      the postmark " Charing Cross , " and the date of post the precede 
      evening . 

      " who know that -PRON- be go to the Northumberland Hotel ? " ask 
      Holmes , glance keenly across at -PRON- visitor . 

      " no one could have know . -PRON- only decide after -PRON- meet Dr. Mortimer . " 

      " but Dr. Mortimer be no doubt already stop there ? " 

      " no , -PRON- have be stay with a friend , " say the doctor . " there be 
      no possible indication that -PRON- intend to go to this hotel . " 

      " Hum ! someone seem to be very deeply interested in -PRON- movement . " 
      out of the envelope -PRON- take a half - sheet of foolscap paper fold 
      into four . this -PRON- open and spread flat upon the table . across the 
      middle of -PRON- a single sentence have be form by the expedient of 
      pasting print word upon -PRON- . -PRON- run : 

      as -PRON- value -PRON- life or -PRON- reason keep away from the moor . 

      the word " moor " only be print in ink . 

      " now , " say Sir Henry Baskerville , " perhaps -PRON- will tell -PRON- , Mr. 
      Holmes , what in thunder be the meaning of that , and who -PRON- be that 
      take so much interest in -PRON- affair ? " 

      " what do -PRON- make of -PRON- , Dr. Mortimer ? -PRON- must allow that there be 
      nothing supernatural about this , at any rate ? " 

      " no , sir , but -PRON- may very well come from someone who be convince 
      that the business be supernatural . " 

      " what business ? " ask Sir Henry sharply . " -PRON- seem to -PRON- that all 
      -PRON- gentleman know a great deal more than -PRON- do about -PRON- own affair . " 

      " -PRON- shall share -PRON- knowledge before -PRON- leave this room , Sir Henry . 
      -PRON- promise -PRON- that , " say Sherlock Holmes . " -PRON- will confine -PRON- 
      for the present with -PRON- permission to this very interesting 
      document , which must have be put together and post yesterday 
      evening . have -PRON- yesterday 's Times , Watson ? " 

      " -PRON- be here in the corner . " 

      " may -PRON- trouble -PRON- for -PRON- -- the inside page , please , with the 
      lead article ? " -PRON- glance swiftly over -PRON- , run -PRON- eye up 
      and down the column . " capital article this on free trade . permit -PRON- 
      to give -PRON- an extract from -PRON- . 

      " ' -PRON- may be cajole into imagining that -PRON- own special trade or 
      -PRON- own industry will be encourage by a protective tariff , but -PRON- 
      stand to reason that such legislation must in the long run keep away 
      wealth from the country , diminish the value of -PRON- import , and low 
      the general condition of life in this island . ' 

      " what do -PRON- think of that , Watson ? " cry Holmes in high glee , 
      rub -PRON- hand together with satisfaction . " do not -PRON- think that 
      be an admirable sentiment ? " 

      Dr. Mortimer look at Holmes with an air of professional interest , 
      and Sir Henry Baskerville turn a pair of puzzle dark eye upon -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- do not know much about the tariff and thing of that kind , " say 
      -PRON- ; " but -PRON- seem to -PRON- -PRON- have get a bit off the trail so far as that 
      note be concern . " 

      " on the contrary , -PRON- think -PRON- be particularly hot upon the trail , Sir 
      Henry . Watson here know more about -PRON- method than -PRON- do , but -PRON- 
      fear that even -PRON- have not quite grasp the significance of this 
      sentence . " 

      " no , -PRON- confess that -PRON- see no connection . " 

      " and yet , -PRON- dear Watson , there be so very close a connection that 
      the one be extract out of the other . ' -PRON- , ' ' -PRON- , ' ' -PRON- , ' ' life , ' 
      ' reason , ' ' value , ' ' keep away , ' ' from the . ' do not -PRON- see now whence 
      these word have be take ? " 

      " by thunder , -PRON- be right ! well , if that be not smart ! " cry Sir 
      Henry . 

      " if any possible doubt remain -PRON- be settle by the fact that ' keep 
      away ' and ' from the ' be cut out in one piece . " 

      " well , now -- so -PRON- be ! " 

      " really , Mr. Holmes , this exceed anything which -PRON- could have 
      imagine , " say Dr. Mortimer , gaze at -PRON- friend in amazement . " -PRON- 
      could understand anyone say that the word be from a newspaper ; 
      but that -PRON- should name which , and add that -PRON- come from the lead 
      article , be really one of the most remarkable thing which -PRON- have 
      ever know . how do -PRON- do -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- presume , Doctor , that -PRON- could tell the skull of a negro from 
      that of an Esquimau ? " 

      " most certainly . " 

      " but how ? " 

      " because that be -PRON- special hobby . the difference be obvious . the 
      supra - orbital crest , the facial angle , the maxillary curve , the-- " 

      " but this be -PRON- special hobby , and the difference be equally 
      obvious . there be as much difference to -PRON- eye between the leaded 
      bourgeois type of a Times article and the slovenly print of an 
      evening half - penny paper as there could be between -PRON- negro and 
      -PRON- esquimau . the detection of type be one of the most elementary 
      branch of knowledge to the special expert in crime , though -PRON- 
      confess that once when -PRON- be very young -PRON- confuse the Leeds Mercury 
      with the Western Morning News . but a Times leader be entirely 
      distinctive , and these word could have be take from nothing else . 
      as -PRON- be do yesterday the strong probability be that -PRON- should 
      find the word in yesterday 's issue . " 

      " so far as -PRON- can follow -PRON- , then , Mr. Holmes , " say Sir Henry 
      Baskerville , " someone cut out this message with a scissors-- " 

      " nail - scissor , " say Holmes . " -PRON- can see that -PRON- be a very 
      short - blade scissor , since the cutter have to take two snip over 
      ' keep away . ' " 

      " that be so . someone , then , cut out the message with a pair of 
      short - blade scissor , paste -PRON- with paste-- " 

      " Gum , " say Holmes . 

      " with gum on to the paper . but -PRON- want to know why the word ' moor ' 
      should have be write ? " 

      " because -PRON- could not find -PRON- in print . the other word be all 
      simple and may be find in any issue , but ' moor ' would be less 
      common . " 

      " why , of course , that would explain -PRON- . have -PRON- read anything else 
      in this message , Mr. Holmes ? " 

      " there be one or two indication , and yet the utmost pain have be 
      take to remove all clue . the address , -PRON- observe be print in 
      rough character . but the Times be a paper which be seldom find in 
      any hand but those of the highly educate . -PRON- may take -PRON- , 
      therefore , that the letter be compose by an educate man who wish 
      to pose as an uneducated one , and -PRON- effort to conceal -PRON- own 
      writing suggest that that writing may be know , or come to be 
      know , by -PRON- . again , -PRON- will observe that the word be not gum 
      on in an accurate line , but that some be much high than other . 
      ' life , ' for example be quite out of -PRON- proper place . that may point 
      to carelessness or -PRON- may point to agitation and hurry upon the part 
      of the cutter . on the whole -PRON- incline to the latter view , since the 
      matter be evidently important , and -PRON- be unlikely that the composer 
      of such a letter would be careless . if -PRON- be in a hurry -PRON- open up 
      the interesting question why -PRON- should be in a hurry , since any 
      letter post up to early morning would reach Sir Henry before -PRON- 
      would leave -PRON- hotel . do the composer fear an interruption -- and 
      from whom ? " 

      " -PRON- be come now rather into the region of guesswork , " say Dr. 
      Mortimer . 

      " say , rather , into the region where -PRON- balance probability and 
      choose the most likely . -PRON- be the scientific use of the imagination , 
      but -PRON- have always some material basis on which to start -PRON- 
      speculation . now , -PRON- would call -PRON- a guess , no doubt , but -PRON- be 
      almost certain that this address have be write in a hotel . " 

      " how in the world can -PRON- say that ? " 

      " if -PRON- examine -PRON- carefully -PRON- will see that both the pen and the 
      ink have give the writer trouble . the pen have splutter twice in a 
      single word , and have run dry three time in a short address , show 
      that there be very little ink in the bottle . now , a private pen or 
      ink - bottle be seldom allow to be in such a state , and the 
      combination of the two must be quite rare . but -PRON- know the hotel ink 
      and the hotel pen , where -PRON- be rare to get anything else . yes , -PRON- have 
      very little hesitation in say that could -PRON- examine the 
      waste - paper basket of the hotel around Charing Cross until -PRON- find 
      the remain of the mutilated Times leader -PRON- could lay -PRON- hand 
      straight upon the person who send this singular message . halloa ! 
      halloa ! what be this ? " 

      -PRON- be carefully examine the foolscap , upon which the word be 
      paste , hold -PRON- only an inch or two from -PRON- eye . 

      " well ? " 

      " nothing , " say -PRON- , throw -PRON- down . " -PRON- be a blank half - sheet of 
      paper , without even a water - mark upon -PRON- . -PRON- think -PRON- have draw as 
      much as -PRON- can from this curious letter ; and now , Sir Henry , have 
      anything else of interest happen to -PRON- since -PRON- have be in 
      London ? " 

      " why , no , Mr. Holmes . -PRON- think not . " 

      " -PRON- have not observe anyone follow or watch -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- seem to have walk right into the thick of a dime novel , " say 
      -PRON- visitor . " why in thunder should anyone follow or watch -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be come to that . -PRON- have nothing else to report to -PRON- before 
      -PRON- go into this matter ? " 

      " well , -PRON- depend upon what -PRON- think worth report . " 

      " -PRON- think anything out of the ordinary routine of life well worth 
      report . " 

      Sir Henry smile . 

      " -PRON- do not know much of british life yet , for -PRON- have spend nearly all 
      -PRON- time in the States and in Canada . but -PRON- hope that to lose one of 
      -PRON- boot be not part of the ordinary routine of life over here . " 

      " -PRON- have lose one of -PRON- boot ? " 

      " -PRON- dear sir , " cry Dr. Mortimer , " -PRON- be only mislay . -PRON- will find 
      -PRON- when -PRON- return to the hotel . what be the use of trouble Mr. 
      Holmes with trifle of this kind ? " 

      " well , -PRON- ask -PRON- for anything outside the ordinary routine . " 

      " exactly , " say Holmes , " however foolish the incident may seem . -PRON- 
      have lose one of -PRON- boot , -PRON- say ? " 

      " well , mislay -PRON- , anyhow . -PRON- put -PRON- both outside -PRON- door last 
      night , and there be only one in the morning . -PRON- could get no sense 
      out of the chap who clean -PRON- . the bad of -PRON- be that -PRON- only 
      buy the pair last night in the Strand , and -PRON- have never have -PRON- 
      on . " 

      " if -PRON- have never wear -PRON- , why do -PRON- put -PRON- out to be 
      clean ? " 

      " -PRON- be tan boot and have never be varnish . that be why -PRON- put 
      -PRON- out . " 

      " then -PRON- understand that on -PRON- arrival in London yesterday -PRON- go 
      out at once and buy a pair of boot ? " 

      " -PRON- do a good deal of shopping . Dr. Mortimer here go round with -PRON- . 
      -PRON- see , if -PRON- be to be squire down there -PRON- must dress the part , and 
      -PRON- may be that -PRON- have get a little careless in -PRON- way out West . 
      among other thing -PRON- buy these brown boot -- give six dollar for 
      -PRON- -- and have one steal before ever -PRON- have -PRON- on -PRON- foot . " 

      " -PRON- seem a singularly useless thing to steal , " say Sherlock Holmes . 
      " -PRON- confess that -PRON- share Dr. Mortimer 's belief that -PRON- will not be 
      long before the miss boot be find . " 

      " and , now , gentleman , " say the baronet with decision , " -PRON- seem to 
      -PRON- that -PRON- have speak quite enough about the little that -PRON- know . -PRON- 
      be time that -PRON- keep -PRON- promise and give -PRON- a full account of what 
      -PRON- be all drive at . " 

      " -PRON- request be a very reasonable one , " Holmes answer . " Dr. 
      Mortimer , -PRON- think -PRON- could not do better than to tell -PRON- story as 
      -PRON- tell -PRON- to -PRON- . " 

      thus encourage , -PRON- scientific friend draw -PRON- paper from -PRON- 
      pocket , and present the whole case as -PRON- have do upon the morning 
      before . Sir Henry Baskerville listen with the deep attention , 
      and with an occasional exclamation of surprise . 

      " well , -PRON- seem to have come into an inheritance with a vengeance , " 
      say -PRON- when the long narrative be finish . " of course , -PRON- have hear 
      of the hound ever since -PRON- be in the nursery . -PRON- be the pet story of 
      the family , though -PRON- never think of take -PRON- seriously before . but 
      as to -PRON- uncle 's death -- well , -PRON- all seem boil up in -PRON- head , and 
      -PRON- can not get -PRON- clear yet . -PRON- do not seem quite to have make up -PRON- 
      mind whether -PRON- be a case for a policeman or a clergyman . " 

      " precisely . " 

      " and now there be this affair of the letter to -PRON- at the hotel . -PRON- 
      suppose that fit into -PRON- place . " 

      " -PRON- seem to show that someone know more than -PRON- do about what go 
      on upon the moor , " say Dr. Mortimer . 

      " and also , " say Holmes , " that someone be not ill - dispose towards 
      -PRON- , since -PRON- warn -PRON- of danger . " 

      " or -PRON- may be that -PRON- wish , for -PRON- own purpose , to scare -PRON- 
      away . " 

      " well , of course , that be possible also . -PRON- be very much indebted to 
      -PRON- , Dr. Mortimer , for introduce -PRON- to a problem which present 
      several interesting alternative . but the practical point which -PRON- 
      now have to decide , Sir Henry , be whether -PRON- be or be not advisable 
      for -PRON- to go to Baskerville Hall . " 

      " why should -PRON- not go ? " 

      " there seem to be danger . " 

      " do -PRON- mean danger from this family fiend or do -PRON- mean danger from 
      human being ? " 

      " well , that be what -PRON- have to find out . " 

      " whichever -PRON- be , -PRON- answer be fix . there be no devil in hell , Mr. 
      Holmes , and there be no man upon earth who can prevent -PRON- from go 
      to the home of -PRON- own people , and -PRON- may take that to be -PRON- final 
      answer . " -PRON- dark brow knit and -PRON- face flush to a dusky red 
      as -PRON- speak . -PRON- be evident that the fiery temper of the Baskervilles 
      be not extinct in this -PRON- last representative . " meanwhile , " say 
      -PRON- , " -PRON- have hardly have time to think over all that -PRON- have tell -PRON- . 
      -PRON- be a big thing for a man to have to understand and to decide at one 
      sit . -PRON- should like to have a quiet hour by -PRON- to make up -PRON- 
      mind . now , look here , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- be half - past eleven now and -PRON- be 
      go back right away to -PRON- hotel . suppose -PRON- and -PRON- friend , Dr. 
      Watson , come round and lunch with -PRON- at two . -PRON- will be able to tell -PRON- 
      more clearly then how this thing strike -PRON- . " 

      " be that convenient to -PRON- , Watson ? " 

      " perfectly . " 

      " then -PRON- may expect -PRON- . Shall -PRON- have a cab call ? " 

      " -PRON- would prefer to walk , for this affair have flurry -PRON- rather . " 

      " -PRON- will join -PRON- in a walk , with pleasure , " say -PRON- companion . 

      " then -PRON- meet again at two o'clock . au revoir , and good - morning ! " 

      -PRON- hear the step of -PRON- visitor descend the stair and the bang of 
      the front door . in an instant Holmes have change from the languid 
      dreamer to the man of action . 

      " -PRON- hat and boot , Watson , quick ! not a moment to lose ! " -PRON- rush 
      into -PRON- room in -PRON- dressing - gown and be back again in a few 
      second in a frock - coat . -PRON- hurry together down the stair and into 
      the street . Dr. Mortimer and Baskerville be still visible about two 
      hundred yard ahead of -PRON- in the direction of Oxford Street . 

      " Shall -PRON- run on and stop -PRON- ? " 

      " not for the world , -PRON- dear Watson . -PRON- be perfectly satisfied with 
      -PRON- company if -PRON- will tolerate mine . -PRON- friend be wise , for -PRON- 
      be certainly a very fine morning for a walk . " 

      -PRON- quicken -PRON- pace until -PRON- have decrease the distance which 
      divide -PRON- by about half . then , still keep a hundred yard behind , 
      -PRON- follow into Oxford Street and so down Regent Street . once -PRON- 
      friend stop and stare into a shop window , upon which Holmes do 
      the same . an instant afterwards -PRON- give a little cry of satisfaction , 
      and , follow the direction of -PRON- eager eye , -PRON- see that a hansom 
      cab with a man inside which have halt on the other side of the 
      street be now proceed slowly onward again . 

      " there be -PRON- man , Watson ! come along ! -PRON- will have a good look at -PRON- , 
      if -PRON- can do no more . " 

      at that instant -PRON- be aware of a bushy black beard and a pair of 
      pierce eye turn upon -PRON- through the side window of the cab . 
      instantly the trapdoor at the top fly up , something be scream to 
      the driver , and the cab fly madly off down Regent Street . Holmes 
      look eagerly round for another , but no empty one be in sight . then 
      -PRON- dash in wild pursuit amid the stream of the traffic , but the 
      start be too great , and already the cab be out of sight . 

      " there now ! " say Holmes bitterly as -PRON- emerge panting and white 
      with vexation from the tide of vehicle . " be ever such bad luck and 
      such bad management , too ? Watson , Watson , if -PRON- be an honest man 
      -PRON- will record this also and set -PRON- against -PRON- success ! " 

      " who be the man ? " 

      " -PRON- have not an idea . " 

      " a spy ? " 

      " well , -PRON- be evident from what -PRON- have hear that Baskerville have 
      be very closely shadow by someone since -PRON- have be in town . how 
      else could -PRON- be know so quickly that -PRON- be the Northumberland 
      Hotel which -PRON- have choose ? if -PRON- have follow -PRON- the first day -PRON- 
      argue that -PRON- would follow -PRON- also the second . -PRON- may have 
      observe that -PRON- twice stroll over to the window while Dr. Mortimer 
      be read -PRON- legend . " 

      " yes , -PRON- remember . " 

      " -PRON- be look out for loiterer in the street , but -PRON- see none . -PRON- 
      be deal with a clever man , Watson . this matter cut very deep , 
      and though -PRON- have not finally make up -PRON- mind whether -PRON- be a 
      benevolent or a malevolent agency which be in touch with -PRON- , -PRON- be 
      conscious always of power and design . when -PRON- friend leave -PRON- at once 
      follow -PRON- in the hope of mark down -PRON- invisible attendant . 
      so wily be -PRON- that -PRON- have not trust -PRON- upon foot , but -PRON- have 
      avail -PRON- of a cab so that -PRON- could loiter behind or dash past 
      -PRON- and so escape -PRON- notice . -PRON- method have the additional 
      advantage that if -PRON- be to take a cab -PRON- be all ready to follow 
      -PRON- . -PRON- have , however , one obvious disadvantage . " 

      " -PRON- put -PRON- in the power of the cabman . " 

      " exactly . " 

      " what a pity -PRON- do not get the number ! " 

      " -PRON- dear Watson , clumsy as -PRON- have be , -PRON- surely do not seriously 
      imagine that -PRON- neglect to get the number ? no . 2704 be -PRON- man . but 
      that be no use to -PRON- for the moment . " 

      " -PRON- fail to see how -PRON- could have do more . " 

      " on observe the cab -PRON- should have instantly turn and walk in 
      the other direction . -PRON- should then at -PRON- leisure have hire a second 
      cab and follow the first at a respectful distance , or , well 
      still , have drive to the Northumberland Hotel and wait there . when 
      -PRON- unknown have follow Baskerville home -PRON- should have have the 
      opportunity of play -PRON- own game upon -PRON- and see where -PRON- 
      make for . as -PRON- be , by an indiscreet eagerness , which be take 
      advantage of with extraordinary quickness and energy by -PRON- opponent , 
      -PRON- have betray -PRON- and lose -PRON- man . " 

      -PRON- have be saunter slowly down Regent Street during this 
      conversation , and Dr. Mortimer , with -PRON- companion , have long vanish 
      in front of -PRON- . 

      " there be no object in -PRON- follow -PRON- , " say Holmes . " the shadow 
      have depart and will not return . -PRON- must see what further card -PRON- 
      have in -PRON- hand and play -PRON- with decision . Could -PRON- swear to 
      that man 's face within the cab ? " 

      " -PRON- could swear only to the beard . " 

      " and so could -PRON- -- from which -PRON- gather that in all probability -PRON- be a 
      false one . a clever man upon so delicate an errand have no use for a 
      beard save to conceal -PRON- feature . come in here , Watson ! " 

      -PRON- turn into one of the district messenger office , where -PRON- be 
      warmly greet by the manager . 

      " ah , Wilson , -PRON- see -PRON- have not forget the little case in which -PRON- 
      have the good fortune to help -PRON- ? " 

      " no , sir , indeed -PRON- have not . -PRON- save -PRON- good name , and perhaps -PRON- 
      life . " 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , -PRON- exaggerate . -PRON- have some recollection , Wilson , 
      that -PRON- have among -PRON- boy a lad name Cartwright , who show some 
      ability during the investigation . " 

      " yes , sir , -PRON- be still with -PRON- . " 

      " Could -PRON- ring -PRON- up?--thank -PRON- ! and -PRON- should be glad to have 
      change of this five - pound note . " 

      a lad of fourteen , with a bright , keen face , have obey the summon 
      of the manager . -PRON- stand now gaze with great reverence at the 
      famous detective . 

      " let -PRON- have the Hotel Directory , " say Holmes . " thank -PRON- ! now , 
      Cartwright , there be the name of twenty - three hotel here , all in 
      the immediate neighbourhood of Charing Cross . do -PRON- see ? " 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " -PRON- will visit each of these in turn . " 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " -PRON- will begin in each case by give the outside porter one 
      shill . here be twenty - three shilling . " 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- that -PRON- want to see the waste - paper of yesterday . 
      -PRON- will say that an important telegram have miscarry and that -PRON- 
      be look for -PRON- . -PRON- understand ? " 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " but what -PRON- be really look for be the centre page of the Times 
      with some hole cut in -PRON- with scissor . here be a copy of the Times . 
      -PRON- be this page . -PRON- could easily recognize -PRON- , could -PRON- not ? " 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " in each case the outside porter will send for the hall porter , to 
      whom also -PRON- will give a shilling . here be twenty - three shilling . 
      -PRON- will then learn in possibly twenty case out of the twenty - three 
      that the waste of the day before have be burn or remove . in the 
      three other case -PRON- will be show a heap of paper and -PRON- will look 
      for this page of the Times among -PRON- . the odd be enormously against 
      -PRON- finding -PRON- . there be ten shilling over in case of emergency . 
      let -PRON- have a report by wire at Baker Street before evening . and now , 
      Watson , -PRON- only remain for -PRON- to find out by wire the identity of 
      the cabman , No . 2704 , and then -PRON- will drop into one of the Bond 
      Street picture gallery and fill in the time until -PRON- be due at the 
      hotel . " 





           CHAPTER V 
           three Broken Threads 


      Sherlock Holmes have , in a very remarkable degree , the power of 
      detach -PRON- mind at will . for two hour the strange business in 
      which -PRON- have be involve appear to be forget , and -PRON- be 
      entirely absorb in the picture of the modern belgian master . -PRON- 
      would talk of nothing but art , of which -PRON- have the crude idea , 
      from -PRON- leave the gallery until -PRON- find -PRON- at the 
      Northumberland Hotel . 

      " Sir Henry Baskerville be upstairs expect -PRON- , " say the clerk . 
      " -PRON- ask -PRON- to show -PRON- up at once when -PRON- come . " 

      " have -PRON- any objection to -PRON- looking at -PRON- register ? " say Holmes . 

      " not in the least . " 

      the book show that two name have be add after that of 
      Baskerville . one be Theophilus Johnson and family , of Newcastle ; the 
      other Mrs. Oldmore and maid , of High Lodge , Alton . 

      " surely that must be the same Johnson whom -PRON- use to know , " say 
      Holmes to the porter . " a lawyer , be -PRON- not , gray - headed , and walk 
      with a limp ? " 

      " no , sir ; this be Mr. Johnson , the coal - owner , a very active 
      gentleman , not old than -PRON- . " 

      " surely -PRON- be mistaken about -PRON- trade ? " 

      " no , sir ! -PRON- have use this hotel for many year , and -PRON- be very well 
      know to -PRON- . " 

      " ah , that settle -PRON- . Mrs. Oldmore , too ; -PRON- seem to remember the name . 
      excuse -PRON- curiosity , but often in call upon one friend one find 
      another . " 

      " -PRON- be an invalid lady , sir . -PRON- husband be once mayor of 
      Gloucester . -PRON- always come to -PRON- when -PRON- be in town . " 

      " thank -PRON- ; -PRON- be afraid -PRON- can not claim -PRON- acquaintance . -PRON- have 
      establish a most important fact by these question , Watson , " -PRON- 
      continue in a low voice as -PRON- go upstairs together . " -PRON- know now 
      that the people who be so interested in -PRON- friend have not settle 
      down in -PRON- own hotel . that mean that while -PRON- be , as -PRON- have 
      see , very anxious to watch -PRON- , -PRON- be equally anxious that -PRON- 
      should not see -PRON- . now , this be a most suggestive fact . " 

      " what do -PRON- suggest ? " 

      " -PRON- suggest -- halloa , -PRON- dear fellow , what on earth be the matter ? " 

      as -PRON- come round the top of the stair -PRON- have run up against Sir 
      Henry Baskerville -PRON- . -PRON- face be flush with anger , and -PRON- 
      hold an old and dusty boot in one of -PRON- hand . so furious be -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be hardly articulate , and when -PRON- do speak -PRON- be in a much 
      broad and more western dialect than any which -PRON- have hear from -PRON- 
      in the morning . 

      " seem to -PRON- -PRON- be play -PRON- for a sucker in this hotel , " -PRON- 
      cry . " -PRON- will find -PRON- have start in to monkey with the wrong man 
      unless -PRON- be careful . by thunder , if that chap can not find -PRON- 
      miss boot there will be trouble . -PRON- can take a joke with the good , 
      Mr. Holmes , but -PRON- have get a bit over the mark this time . " 

      " still look for -PRON- boot ? " 

      " yes , sir , and mean to find -PRON- . " 

      " but , surely , -PRON- say that -PRON- be a new brown boot ? " 

      " so -PRON- be , sir . and now -PRON- be an old black one . " 

      " what ! -PRON- do not mean to say-- ? " 

      " that be just what -PRON- do mean to say . -PRON- only have three pair in the 
      world -- the new brown , the old black , and the patent leather , which -PRON- 
      be wear . last night -PRON- take one of -PRON- brown one , and to - day 
      -PRON- have sneak one of the black . well , have -PRON- get -PRON- ? speak out , 
      man , and do not stand stare ! " 

      an agitated german waiter have appear upon the scene . 

      " no , sir ; -PRON- have make inquiry all over the hotel , but -PRON- can hear no 
      word of -PRON- . " 

      " well , either that boot come back before sundown or -PRON- will see the 
      manager and tell -PRON- that -PRON- go right straight out of this hotel . " 

      " -PRON- shall be find , sir -- -PRON- promise -PRON- that if -PRON- will have a little 
      patience -PRON- will be find . " 

      " mind -PRON- be , for -PRON- be the last thing of -PRON- that -PRON- will lose in this 
      den of thief . well , well , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- will excuse -PRON- troubling 
      -PRON- about such a trifle-- " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- be well worth trouble about . " 

      " why , -PRON- look very serious over -PRON- . " 

      " how do -PRON- explain -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- just do not attempt to explain -PRON- . -PRON- seem the very maddest , 
      queer thing that ever happen to -PRON- . " 

      " the queer perhaps-- " say Holmes , thoughtfully . 

      " what do -PRON- make of -PRON- -PRON- ? " 

      " well , -PRON- do not profess to understand -PRON- yet . this case of -PRON- be 
      very complex , Sir Henry . when take in conjunction with -PRON- uncle 's 
      death -PRON- be not sure that of all the five hundred case of capital 
      importance which -PRON- have handle there be one which cut so deep . but 
      -PRON- hold several thread in -PRON- hand , and the odd be that one or 
      other of -PRON- guide -PRON- to the truth . -PRON- may waste time in follow 
      the wrong one , but sooner or later -PRON- must come upon the right . " 

      -PRON- have a pleasant luncheon in which little be say of the business 
      which have bring -PRON- together . -PRON- be in the private sitting - room to 
      which -PRON- afterwards repair that Holmes ask Baskerville what be 
      -PRON- intention . 

      " to go to Baskerville Hall . " 

      " and when ? " 

      " at the end of the week . " 

      " on the whole , " say Holmes , " -PRON- think that -PRON- decision be a wise 
      one . -PRON- have ample evidence that -PRON- be be dog in London , and 
      amid the million of this great city -PRON- be difficult to discover who 
      these people be or what -PRON- object can be . if -PRON- intention be 
      evil -PRON- may do -PRON- a mischief , and -PRON- should be powerless to 
      prevent -PRON- . -PRON- do not know , Dr. Mortimer , that -PRON- be follow 
      this morning from -PRON- house ? " 

      Dr. Mortimer start violently . 

      " follow ! by whom ? " 

      " that , unfortunately , be what -PRON- can not tell -PRON- . have -PRON- among -PRON- 
      neighbour or acquaintance on Dartmoor any man with a black , full 
      beard ? " 

      " no -- or , let -PRON- see -- why , yes . Barrymore , Sir Charles 's butler , be a 
      man with a full , black beard . " 

      " ha ! where be Barrymore ? " 

      " -PRON- be in charge of the Hall . " 

      " -PRON- have good ascertain if -PRON- be really there , or if by any 
      possibility -PRON- may be in London . " 

      " how can -PRON- do that ? " 

      " give -PRON- a telegraph form . ' be all ready for Sir Henry ? ' that will 
      do . address to Mr. Barrymore , Baskerville Hall . what be the near 
      telegraph - office ? Grimpen . very good , -PRON- will send a second wire to 
      the postmaster , Grimpen : ' telegram to Mr. Barrymore to be deliver 
      into -PRON- own hand . if absent , please return wire to Sir Henry 
      Baskerville , Northumberland Hotel . ' that should let -PRON- know before 
      evening whether Barrymore be at -PRON- post in Devonshire or not . " 

      " that be so , " say Baskerville . " by the way , Dr. Mortimer , who be this 
      Barrymore , anyhow ? " 

      " -PRON- be the son of the old caretaker , who be dead . -PRON- have look 
      after the Hall for four generation now . so far as -PRON- know , -PRON- and -PRON- 
      wife be as respectable a couple as any in the county . " 

      " at the same time , " say Baskerville , " -PRON- be clear enough that so long 
      as there be none of the family at the Hall these people have a 
      mighty fine home and nothing to do . " 

      " that be true . " 

      " do Barrymore profit at all by Sir Charles 's will ? " ask Holmes . 

      " -PRON- and -PRON- wife have five hundred pound each . " 

      " ha ! do -PRON- know that -PRON- would receive this ? " 

      " yes ; Sir Charles be very fond of talk about the provision of 
      -PRON- will . " 

      " that be very interesting . " 

      " -PRON- hope , " say Dr. Mortimer , " that -PRON- do not look with suspicious 
      eye upon everyone who receive a legacy from Sir Charles , for -PRON- also 
      have a thousand pound leave to -PRON- . " 

      " indeed ! and anyone else ? " 

      " there be many insignificant sum to individual , and a large 
      number of public charity . the residue all go to Sir Henry . " 

      " and how much be the residue ? " 

      " seven hundred and forty thousand pound . " 

      Holmes raise -PRON- eyebrow in surprise . " -PRON- have no idea that so 
      gigantic a sum be involve , " say -PRON- . 

      " Sir Charles have the reputation of be rich , but -PRON- do not know 
      how very rich -PRON- be until -PRON- come to examine -PRON- security . the 
      total value of the estate be close on to a million . " 

      " dear -PRON- ! -PRON- be a stake for which a man may well play a desperate 
      game . and one more question , Dr. Mortimer . suppose that anything 
      happen to -PRON- young friend here -- -PRON- will forgive the unpleasant 
      hypothesis!--who would inherit the estate ? " 

      " since Rodger Baskerville , Sir Charles 's young brother die 
      unmarried , the estate would descend to the Desmonds , who be distant 
      cousin . James Desmond be an elderly clergyman in Westmoreland . " 

      " thank -PRON- . these detail be all of great interest . have -PRON- meet Mr. 
      James Desmond ? " 

      " yes ; -PRON- once come down to visit Sir Charles . -PRON- be a man of 
      venerable appearance and of saintly life . -PRON- remember that -PRON- refuse 
      to accept any settlement from Sir Charles , though -PRON- press -PRON- upon 
      -PRON- . " 

      " and this man of simple taste would be the heir to Sir Charles 's 
      thousand . " 

      " -PRON- would be the heir to the estate because that be entail . -PRON- 
      would also be the heir to the money unless -PRON- be will otherwise 
      by the present owner , who can , of course , do what -PRON- like with -PRON- . " 

      " and have -PRON- make -PRON- will , Sir Henry ? " 

      " no , Mr. Holmes , -PRON- have not . -PRON- have have no time , for -PRON- be only 
      yesterday that -PRON- learn how matter stand . but in any case -PRON- feel 
      that the money should go with the title and estate . that be -PRON- poor 
      uncle 's idea . how be the owner go to restore the glory of the 
      Baskervilles if -PRON- have not money enough to keep up the property ? 
      House , land , and dollar must go together . " 

      " quite so . well , Sir Henry , -PRON- be of one mind with -PRON- as to the 
      advisability of -PRON- go down to Devonshire without delay . there be 
      only one provision which -PRON- must make . -PRON- certainly must not go 
      alone . " 

      " Dr. Mortimer return with -PRON- . " 

      " but Dr. Mortimer have -PRON- practice to attend to , and -PRON- house be 
      mile away from -PRON- . with all the good will in the world -PRON- may be 
      unable to help -PRON- . no , Sir Henry , -PRON- must take with -PRON- someone , a 
      trusty man , who will be always by -PRON- side . " 

      " be -PRON- possible that -PRON- could come -PRON- , Mr. Holmes ? " 

      " if matter come to a crisis -PRON- should endeavour to be present in 
      person ; but -PRON- can understand that , with -PRON- extensive consulting 
      practice and with the constant appeal which reach -PRON- from many 
      quarter , -PRON- be impossible for -PRON- to be absent from London for an 
      indefinite time . at the present instant one of the most revere name 
      in England be be besmirch by a blackmailer , and only -PRON- can stop 
      a disastrous scandal . -PRON- will see how impossible -PRON- be for -PRON- to go 
      to Dartmoor . " 

      " whom would -PRON- recommend , then ? " 

      Holmes lay -PRON- hand upon -PRON- arm . 

      " if -PRON- friend would undertake -PRON- there be no man who be well worth 
      have at -PRON- side when -PRON- be in a tight place . no one can say so 
      more confidently than I. " 

      the proposition take -PRON- completely by surprise , but before -PRON- have time 
      to answer , Baskerville seize -PRON- by the hand and wring -PRON- heartily . 

      " well , now , that be real kind of -PRON- , Dr. Watson , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- see 
      how -PRON- be with -PRON- , and -PRON- know just as much about the matter as -PRON- 
      do . if -PRON- will come down to Baskerville Hall and see -PRON- through -PRON- will 
      never forget -PRON- . " 

      the promise of adventure have always a fascination for -PRON- , and -PRON- be 
      compliment by the word of Holmes and by the eagerness with which 
      the baronet hail -PRON- as a companion . 

      " -PRON- will come , with pleasure , " say I. " -PRON- do not know how -PRON- could 
      employ -PRON- time better . " 

      " and -PRON- will report very carefully to -PRON- , " say Holmes . " when a 
      crisis come , as -PRON- will do , -PRON- will direct how -PRON- shall act . -PRON- 
      suppose that by Saturday all may be ready ? " 

      " Would that suit Dr. Watson ? " 

      " perfectly . " 

      " then on Saturday , unless -PRON- hear to the contrary , -PRON- shall meet at 
      the 10.30 train from Paddington . " 

      -PRON- have rise to depart when Baskerville give a cry , of triumph , and 
      dive into one of the corner of the room -PRON- draw a brown boot from 
      under a cabinet . 

      " -PRON- miss boot ! " -PRON- cry . 

      " May all -PRON- difficulty vanish as easily ! " say Sherlock Holmes . 

      " but -PRON- be a very singular thing , " Dr. Mortimer remark . " -PRON- search 
      this room carefully before lunch . " 

      " and so do -PRON- , " say Baskerville . " every inch of -PRON- . " 

      " there be certainly no boot in -PRON- then . " 

      " in that case the waiter must have place -PRON- there while -PRON- be 
      lunch . " 

      the German be send for but profess to know nothing of the matter , 
      nor could any inquiry clear -PRON- up . another item have be add to 
      that constant and apparently purposeless series of small mystery 
      which have succeed each other so rapidly . set aside the whole 
      grim story of Sir Charles 's death , -PRON- have a line of inexplicable 
      incident all within the limit of two day , which include the 
      receipt of the print letter , the black - bearded spy in the hansom , 
      the loss of the new brown boot , the loss of the old black boot , and 
      now the return of the new brown boot . Holmes sit in silence in the 
      cab as -PRON- drive back to Baker Street , and -PRON- know from -PRON- draw brow 
      and keen face that -PRON- mind , like -PRON- own , be busy in endeavour to 
      frame some scheme into which all these strange and apparently 
      disconnected episode could be fit . all afternoon and late into 
      the evening -PRON- sit lose in tobacco and thought . 

      just before dinner two telegram be hand in . the first ran : 

      have just hear that Barrymore be at the Hall . 
      Baskerville . 

      the second : 

      Visited twenty - three hotel as direct , but sorry to report unable 
      to trace cut sheet of Times . 
      Cartwright . 

      " there go two of -PRON- thread , Watson . there be nothing more 
      stimulate than a case where everything go against -PRON- . -PRON- must 
      cast round for another scent . " 

      " -PRON- have still the cabman who drive the spy . " 

      " exactly . -PRON- have wire to get -PRON- name and address from the Official 
      Registry . -PRON- should not be surprised if this be an answer to -PRON- 
      question . " 

      the ring at the bell prove to be something even more satisfactory 
      than an answer , however , for the door open and a rough - look 
      fellow enter who be evidently the man -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- get a message from the head office that a gent at this address have 
      be inquire for 2704 , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- have drive -PRON- cab this seven 
      year and never a word of complaint . -PRON- come here straight from the 
      Yard to ask -PRON- to -PRON- face what -PRON- have against -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- have nothing in the world against -PRON- , -PRON- good man , " say Holmes . 
      " on the contrary , -PRON- have half a sovereign for -PRON- if -PRON- will give -PRON- 
      a clear answer to -PRON- question . " 

      " well , -PRON- have have a good day and no mistake , " say the cabman , with a 
      grin . " what be -PRON- -PRON- want to ask , sir ? " 

      " first of all -PRON- name and address , in case -PRON- want -PRON- again . " 

      " John Clayton , 3 Turpey Street , the Borough . -PRON- cab be out of 
      Shipley 's Yard , near Waterloo Station . " 

      Sherlock Holmes make a note of -PRON- . 

      " now , Clayton , tell -PRON- all about the fare who come and watch this 
      house at ten o'clock this morning and afterwards follow the two 
      gentleman down Regent Street . " 

      the man look surprised and a little embarrassed . " why , there be no 
      good -PRON- tell -PRON- thing , for -PRON- seem to know as much as -PRON- do 
      already , " say -PRON- . " the truth be that the gentleman tell -PRON- that -PRON- 
      be a detective and that -PRON- be to say nothing about -PRON- to anyone . " 

      " -PRON- good fellow , this be a very serious business , and -PRON- may find 
      -PRON- in a pretty bad position if -PRON- try to hide anything from 
      -PRON- . -PRON- say that -PRON- fare tell -PRON- that -PRON- be a detective ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- do . " 

      " when do -PRON- say this ? " 

      " when -PRON- leave -PRON- . " 

      " do -PRON- say anything more ? " 

      " -PRON- mention -PRON- name . " 

      Holmes cast a swift glance of triumph at -PRON- . " oh , -PRON- mention -PRON- 
      name , do -PRON- ? that be imprudent . what be the name that -PRON- 
      mention ? " 

      " -PRON- name , " say the cabman , " be Mr. Sherlock Holmes . " 

      never have -PRON- see -PRON- friend more completely take aback than by the 
      cabman 's reply . for an instant -PRON- sit in silent amazement . then -PRON- 
      burst into a hearty laugh . 

      " a touch , Watson -- an undeniable touch ! " say -PRON- . " -PRON- feel a foil as 
      quick and supple as -PRON- own . -PRON- get home upon -PRON- very prettily that 
      time . so -PRON- name be Sherlock Holmes , be -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , sir , that be the gentleman 's name . " 

      " Excellent ! tell -PRON- where -PRON- pick -PRON- up and all that occur . " 

      " -PRON- hail -PRON- at half - past nine in Trafalgar Square . -PRON- say that -PRON- 
      be a detective , and -PRON- offer -PRON- two guinea if -PRON- would do exactly 
      what -PRON- want all day and ask no question . -PRON- be glad enough to 
      agree . first -PRON- drive down to the Northumberland Hotel and wait 
      there until two gentleman come out and take a cab from the rank . -PRON- 
      follow -PRON- cab until -PRON- pull up somewhere near here . " 

      " this very door , " say Holmes . 

      " well , -PRON- could not be sure of that , but -PRON- dare say -PRON- fare know all 
      about -PRON- . -PRON- pull up half - way down the street and wait an hour 
      and a half . then the two gentleman pass -PRON- , walk , and -PRON- 
      follow down Baker Street and along-- " 

      " -PRON- know , " say Holmes . 

      " until -PRON- get three - quarter down Regent Street . then -PRON- gentleman 
      throw up the trap , and -PRON- cry that -PRON- should drive right away to 
      Waterloo Station as hard as -PRON- could go . -PRON- whip up the mare and -PRON- 
      be there under the ten minute . then -PRON- pay up -PRON- two guinea , 
      like a good one , and away -PRON- go into the station . only just as -PRON- 
      be leave -PRON- turn round and -PRON- say : ' -PRON- may interest -PRON- to 
      know that -PRON- have be drive Mr. Sherlock Holmes . ' that be how -PRON- 
      come to know the name . " 

      " -PRON- see . and -PRON- see no more of -PRON- ? " 

      " not after -PRON- go into the station . " 

      " and how would -PRON- describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes ? " 

      the cabman scratch -PRON- head . " well , -PRON- be not altogether such an 
      easy gentleman to describe . -PRON- would put -PRON- at forty year of age , and -PRON- 
      be of a middle height , two or three inch short than -PRON- , sir . -PRON- 
      be dress like a toff , and -PRON- have a black beard , cut square at the 
      end , and a pale face . -PRON- do not know as -PRON- could say more than that . " 

      " colour of -PRON- eye ? " 

      " no , -PRON- can not say that . " 

      " nothing more that -PRON- can remember ? " 

      " no , sir ; nothing . " 

      " well , then , here be -PRON- half - sovereign . there be another one wait 
      for -PRON- if -PRON- can bring any more information . good night ! " 

      " good night , sir , and thank -PRON- ! " 

      John Clayton depart chuckle , and Holmes turn to -PRON- with a shrug 
      of -PRON- shoulder and a rueful smile . 

      " Snap go -PRON- third thread , and -PRON- end where -PRON- begin , " say -PRON- . 
      " the cunning rascal ! -PRON- know -PRON- number , know that Sir Henry 
      Baskerville have consult -PRON- , spot who -PRON- be in Regent Street , 
      conjecture that -PRON- have get the number of the cab and would lay -PRON- 
      hand on the driver , and so send back this audacious message . -PRON- tell 
      -PRON- , Watson , this time -PRON- have get a foeman who be worthy of -PRON- 
      steel . -PRON- have be checkmate in London . -PRON- can only wish -PRON- better 
      luck in Devonshire . but -PRON- be not easy in -PRON- mind about -PRON- . " 

      " about what ? " 

      " about send -PRON- . -PRON- be an ugly business , Watson , an ugly dangerous 
      business , and the more -PRON- see of -PRON- the less -PRON- like -PRON- . yes , -PRON- dear 
      fellow , -PRON- may laugh , but -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- word that -PRON- shall be very 
      glad to have -PRON- back safe and sound in Baker Street once more . " 





           CHAPTER VI 
           Baskerville Hall 


      Sir Henry Baskerville and Dr. Mortimer be ready upon the appoint 
      day , and -PRON- start as arrange for Devonshire . Mr. Sherlock Holmes 
      drive with -PRON- to the station and give -PRON- -PRON- last parting injunction 
      and advice . 

      " -PRON- will not bias -PRON- mind by suggest theory or suspicion , 
      Watson , " say -PRON- ; " -PRON- wish -PRON- simply to report fact in the full 
      possible manner to -PRON- , and -PRON- can leave -PRON- to do the theorizing . " 

      " what sort of fact ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " anything which may seem to have a bearing however indirect upon the 
      case , and especially the relation between young Baskerville and -PRON- 
      neighbour or any fresh particular concern the death of Sir 
      Charles . -PRON- have make some inquiry -PRON- in the last few day , but 
      the result have , -PRON- fear , be negative . one thing only appear to be 
      certain , and that be that Mr. James Desmond , who be the next heir , be 
      an elderly gentleman of a very amiable disposition , so that this 
      persecution do not arise from -PRON- . -PRON- really think that -PRON- may 
      eliminate -PRON- entirely from -PRON- calculation . there remain the people 
      who will actually surround Sir Henry Baskerville upon the moor . " 

      " Would -PRON- not be well in the first place to get rid of this Barrymore 
      couple ? " 

      " by no mean . -PRON- could not make a great mistake . if -PRON- be 
      innocent -PRON- would be a cruel injustice , and if -PRON- be guilty -PRON- 
      should be give up all chance of bring -PRON- home to -PRON- . no , no , 
      -PRON- will preserve -PRON- upon -PRON- list of suspect . then there be a 
      groom at the Hall , if -PRON- remember right . there be two moorland 
      farmer . there be -PRON- friend Dr. Mortimer , whom -PRON- believe to be 
      entirely honest , and there be -PRON- wife , of whom -PRON- know nothing . 
      there be this naturalist , Stapleton , and there be -PRON- sister , who be 
      say to be a young lady of attraction . there be Mr. Frankland , of 
      Lafter Hall , who be also an unknown factor , and there be one or two 
      other neighbour . these be the folk who must be -PRON- very special 
      study . " 

      " -PRON- will do -PRON- good . " 

      " -PRON- have arm , -PRON- suppose ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- think -PRON- as well to take -PRON- . " 

      " most certainly . keep -PRON- revolver near -PRON- night and day , and never 
      relax -PRON- precaution . " 

      -PRON- friend have already secure a first - class carriage and be 
      wait for -PRON- upon the platform . 

      " no , -PRON- have no news of any kind , " say Dr. Mortimer in answer to -PRON- 
      friend 's question . " -PRON- can swear to one thing , and that be that -PRON- 
      have not be shadow during the last two day . -PRON- have never go 
      out without keep a sharp watch , and no one could have escape -PRON- 
      notice . " 

      " -PRON- have always keep together , -PRON- presume ? " 

      " except yesterday afternoon . -PRON- usually give up one day to pure 
      amusement when -PRON- come to town , so -PRON- spend -PRON- at the Museum of the 
      College of Surgeons . " 

      " and -PRON- go to look at the folk in the park , " say Baskerville . " but 
      -PRON- have no trouble of any kind . " 

      " -PRON- be imprudent , all the same , " say Holmes , shake -PRON- head and 
      look very grave . " -PRON- beg , Sir Henry , that -PRON- will not go about 
      alone . some great misfortune will befall -PRON- if -PRON- do . do -PRON- get 
      -PRON- other boot ? " 

      " no , sir , -PRON- be go forever . " 

      " indeed . that be very interesting . well , good - bye , " -PRON- add as the 
      train begin to glide down the platform . " bear in mind , Sir Henry , one 
      of the phrase in that queer old legend which Dr. Mortimer have read 
      to -PRON- , and avoid the moor in those hour of darkness when the power 
      of evil be exalt . " 

      -PRON- look back at the platform when -PRON- have leave -PRON- far behind , and see 
      the tall , austere figure of Holmes stand motionless and gaze 
      after -PRON- . 

      the journey be a swift and pleasant one , and -PRON- spend -PRON- in make 
      the more intimate acquaintance of -PRON- two companion and in play 
      with Dr. Mortimer 's spaniel . in a very few hour the brown earth have 
      become ruddy , the brick have change to granite , and red cow graze 
      in well - hedge field where the lush grass and more luxuriant 
      vegetation speak of a rich , if a damper , climate . young Baskerville 
      stare eagerly out of the window , and cry aloud with delight as -PRON- 
      recognize the familiar feature of the Devon scenery . 

      " -PRON- have be over a good part of the world since -PRON- leave -PRON- , Dr. 
      Watson , " say -PRON- ; " but -PRON- have never see a place to compare with -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- never see a Devonshire man who do not swear by -PRON- county , " -PRON- 
      remark . 

      " -PRON- depend upon the breed of man quite as much as on the county , " 
      say Dr. Mortimer . " a glance at -PRON- friend here reveal the rounded 
      head of the Celt , which carry inside -PRON- the celtic enthusiasm and 
      power of attachment . poor Sir Charles 's head be of a very rare type , 
      half gaelic , half Ivernian in -PRON- characteristic . but -PRON- be very 
      young when -PRON- last see Baskerville Hall , be -PRON- not ? " 

      " -PRON- be a boy in -PRON- ' teen at the time of -PRON- father 's death , and have 
      never see the Hall , for -PRON- live in a little cottage on the South 
      Coast . Thence -PRON- go straight to a friend in America . -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- 
      be all as new to -PRON- as -PRON- be to Dr. Watson , and -PRON- be as keen as 
      possible to see the moor . " 

      " be -PRON- ? then -PRON- wish be easily grant , for there be -PRON- first 
      sight of the moor , " say Dr. Mortimer , point out of the carriage 
      window . 

      over the green square of the field and the low curve of a wood 
      there rise in the distance a gray , melancholy hill , with a strange 
      jagged summit , dim and vague in the distance , like some fantastic 
      landscape in a dream . Baskerville sit for a long time , -PRON- eye fix 
      upon -PRON- , and -PRON- read upon -PRON- eager face how much -PRON- mean to -PRON- , 
      this first sight of that strange spot where the man of -PRON- blood have 
      hold sway so long and leave -PRON- mark so deep . there -PRON- sit , with -PRON- 
      tweed suit and -PRON- american accent , in the corner of a prosaic 
      railway - carriage , and yet as -PRON- look at -PRON- dark and expressive face 
      -PRON- feel more than ever how true a descendant -PRON- be of that long line 
      of high - blooded , fiery , and masterful man . there be pride , valour , 
      and strength in -PRON- thick brow , -PRON- sensitive nostril , and -PRON- 
      large hazel eye . if on that forbid moor a difficult and 
      dangerous quest should lie before -PRON- , this be at least a comrade for 
      whom one may venture to take a risk with the certainty that -PRON- 
      would bravely share -PRON- . 

      the train pull up at a small wayside station and -PRON- all descend . 
      outside , beyond the low , white fence , a wagonette with a pair of cobs 
      be wait . -PRON- coming be evidently a great event , for 
      station - master and porter cluster round -PRON- to carry out -PRON- 
      luggage . -PRON- be a sweet , simple country spot , but -PRON- be surprised to 
      observe that by the gate there stand two soldierly man in dark 
      uniform , who lean upon -PRON- short rifle and glance keenly at -PRON- 
      as -PRON- pass . the coachman , a hard - faced , gnarl little fellow , 
      salute Sir Henry Baskerville , and in a few minute -PRON- be fly 
      swiftly down the broad , white road . rolling pasture land curve 
      upward on either side of -PRON- , and old gable house peep out from 
      amid the thick green foliage , but behind the peaceful and sunlit 
      country - side there rise ever , dark against the evening sky , the long , 
      gloomy curve of the moor , break by the jagged and sinister hill . 

      the wagonette swing round into a side road , and -PRON- curve upward 
      through deep lane wear by century of wheel , high bank on either 
      side , heavy with drip mos and fleshy hart's - tongue fern . 
      bronzing bracken and mottle bramble gleam in the light of the 
      sink sun . still steadily rise , -PRON- pass over a narrow granite 
      bridge , and skirt a noisy stream which gush swiftly down , foam 
      and roar amid the gray boulder . both road and stream wind up 
      through a valley dense with scrub oak and fir . at every turn 
      Baskerville give an exclamation of delight , look eagerly about -PRON- 
      and ask countless question . to -PRON- eye all seem beautiful , but 
      to -PRON- a tinge of melancholy lie upon the country - side , which bear so 
      clearly the mark of the waning year . yellow leave carpet the lane 
      and flutter down upon -PRON- as -PRON- pass . the rattle of -PRON- wheel 
      die away as -PRON- drive through drift of rot vegetation -- sad 
      gift , as -PRON- seem to -PRON- , for Nature to throw before the carriage of 
      the return heir of the Baskervilles . 

      " Halloa ! " cry Dr. Mortimer , " what be this ? " 

      a steep curve of heath - clothe land , an outlying spur of the moor , lie 
      in front of -PRON- . on the summit , hard and clear like an equestrian 
      statue upon -PRON- pedestal , be a mount soldier , dark and stern , -PRON- 
      rifle poise ready over -PRON- forearm . -PRON- be watch the road along 
      which -PRON- travel . 

      " what be this , Perkins ? " ask Dr. Mortimer . 

      -PRON- driver half turn in -PRON- seat . 

      " there be a convict escape from Princetown , sir . -PRON- be be out three 
      day now , and the warder watch every road and every station , but 
      -PRON- have have no sight of -PRON- yet . the farmer about here do not like 
      -PRON- , sir , and that be a fact . " 

      " well , -PRON- understand that -PRON- get five pound if -PRON- can give 
      information . " 

      " yes , sir , but the chance of five pound be but a poor thing compare 
      to the chance of have -PRON- throat cut . -PRON- see , -PRON- be not like any 
      ordinary convict . this be a man that would stick at nothing . " 

      " who be -PRON- , then ? " 

      " -PRON- be Selden , the Notting Hill murderer . " 

      -PRON- remember the case well , for -PRON- be one in which Holmes have take 
      an interest on account of the peculiar ferocity of the crime and the 
      wanton brutality which have mark all the action of the assassin . 
      the commutation of -PRON- death sentence have be due to some doubt as 
      to -PRON- complete sanity , so atrocious be -PRON- conduct . -PRON- wagonette 
      have top a rise and in front of -PRON- rise the huge expanse of the 
      moor , mottle with gnarled and craggy cairn and tor . a cold wind 
      sweep down from -PRON- and set -PRON- shiver . somewhere there , on that 
      desolate plain , be lurk this fiendish man , hide in a burrow 
      like a wild beast , -PRON- heart full of malignancy against the whole 
      race which have cast -PRON- out . -PRON- need but this to complete the grim 
      suggestiveness of the barren waste , the chilling wind , and the 
      darkle sky . even Baskerville fall silent and pull -PRON- overcoat 
      more closely around -PRON- . 

      -PRON- have leave the fertile country behind and beneath -PRON- . -PRON- look back 
      on -PRON- now , the slant ray of a low sun turn the stream to 
      thread of gold and glow on the red earth new turn by the plough 
      and the broad tangle of the woodland . the road in front of -PRON- grow 
      bleaker and wild over huge russet and olive slope , sprinkle with 
      giant boulder . now and then -PRON- pass a moorland cottage , wall and 
      roof with stone , with no creeper to break -PRON- harsh outline . 
      suddenly -PRON- look down into a cup - like depression , patch with 
      stunted oak and fir which have be twist and bent by the fury of 
      year of storm . two high , narrow tower rise over the tree . the 
      driver point with -PRON- whip . 

      " Baskerville Hall , " say -PRON- . 

      -PRON- master have rise and be stare with flushed cheek and shine 
      eye . a few minute later -PRON- have reach the lodge - gate , a maze of 
      fantastic tracery in wrought iron , with weather - bite pillar on 
      either side , blotch with lichens , and surmount by the boar ' 
      head of the Baskervilles . the lodge be a ruin of black granite and 
      bare rib of rafter , but face -PRON- be a new building , half 
      construct , the first fruit of Sir Charles 's south african gold . 

      through the gateway -PRON- pass into the avenue , where the wheel be 
      again hush amid the leave , and the old tree shoot -PRON- branch 
      in a sombre tunnel over -PRON- head . Baskerville shudder as -PRON- look 
      up the long , dark drive to where the house glimmer like a ghost at 
      the farther end . 

      " be -PRON- here ? " -PRON- ask in a low voice . 

      " no , no , the Yew Alley be on the other side . " 

      the young heir glance round with a gloomy face . 

      " -PRON- be no wonder -PRON- uncle feel as if trouble be come on -PRON- in 
      such a place as this , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be enough to scare any man . -PRON- will 
      have a row of electric lamp up here inside of six month , and -PRON- 
      will not know -PRON- again , with a thousand candle - power Swan and Edison 
      right here in front of the hall door . " 

      the avenue open into a broad expanse of turf , and the house lie 
      before -PRON- . in the fading light -PRON- could see that the centre be a 
      heavy block of building from which a porch project . the whole front 
      be drape in ivy , with a patch clip bare here and there where a 
      window or a coat - of - arm break through the dark veil . from this 
      central block rise the twin tower , ancient , crenelate , and pierce 
      with many loophole . to right and leave of the turret be more 
      modern wing of black granite . a dull light shine through heavy 
      mullione window , and from the high chimney which rise from the 
      steep , high - angled roof there spring a single black column of smoke . 

      " welcome , Sir Henry ! welcome to Baskerville Hall ! " 

      a tall man have step from the shadow of the porch to open the door 
      of the wagonette . the figure of a woman be silhouette against the 
      yellow light of the hall . -PRON- come out and help the man to hand 
      down -PRON- bag . 

      " -PRON- do not mind -PRON- drive straight home , Sir Henry ? " say Dr. 
      Mortimer . " -PRON- wife be expect -PRON- . " 

      " surely -PRON- will stay and have some dinner ? " 

      " no , -PRON- must go . -PRON- shall probably find some work await -PRON- . -PRON- would 
      stay to show -PRON- over the house , but Barrymore will be a well guide 
      than I. Good - bye , and never hesitate night or day to send for -PRON- if -PRON- 
      can be of service . " 

      the wheel die away down the drive while Sir Henry and -PRON- turn into 
      the hall , and the door clang heavily behind -PRON- . -PRON- be a fine 
      apartment in which -PRON- find -PRON- , large , lofty , and heavily 
      rafter with huge balk of age - blacken oak . in the great 
      old - fashioned fireplace behind the high iron dog a log - fire crackle 
      and snap . Sir Henry and -PRON- hold out -PRON- hand to -PRON- , for -PRON- be 
      numb from -PRON- long drive . then -PRON- gaze round -PRON- at the high , thin 
      window of old stained glass , the oak panelling , the stag ' head , the 
      coat - of - arm upon the wall , all dim and sombre in the subdued light 
      of the central lamp . 

      " -PRON- be just as -PRON- imagine -PRON- , " say Sir Henry . " be -PRON- not the very 
      picture of an old family home ? to think that this should be the same 
      hall in which for five hundred year -PRON- people have live . -PRON- strike 
      -PRON- solemn to think of -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- see -PRON- dark face light up with a boyish enthusiasm as -PRON- gaze about 
      -PRON- . the light beat upon -PRON- where -PRON- stand , but long shadow trail 
      down the wall and hang like a black canopy above -PRON- . Barrymore have 
      return from take -PRON- luggage to -PRON- room . -PRON- stand in front of 
      -PRON- now with the subdue manner of a well - train servant . -PRON- be a 
      remarkable - looking man , tall , handsome , with a square black beard and 
      pale , distinguished feature . 

      " Would -PRON- wish dinner to be serve at once , sir ? " 

      " be -PRON- ready ? " 

      " in a very few minute , sir . -PRON- will find hot water in -PRON- room . 
      -PRON- wife and -PRON- will be happy , Sir Henry , to stay with -PRON- until -PRON- 
      have make -PRON- fresh arrangement , but -PRON- will understand that under 
      the new condition this house will require a considerable staff . " 

      " what new condition ? " 

      " -PRON- only mean , sir , that Sir Charles lead a very retire life , and -PRON- 
      be able to look after -PRON- want . -PRON- would , naturally , wish to have 
      more company , and so -PRON- will need change in -PRON- household . " 

      " do -PRON- mean that -PRON- wife and -PRON- wish to leave ? " 

      " only when -PRON- be quite convenient to -PRON- , sir . " 

      " but -PRON- family have be with -PRON- for several generation , have -PRON- 
      not ? -PRON- should be sorry to begin -PRON- life here by break an old 
      family connection . " 

      -PRON- seem to discern some sign of emotion upon the butler 's white 
      face . 

      " -PRON- feel that also , sir , and so do -PRON- wife . but to tell the truth , 
      sir , -PRON- be both very much attach to Sir Charles , and -PRON- death 
      give -PRON- a shock and make these surrounding very painful to -PRON- . -PRON- 
      fear that -PRON- shall never again be easy in -PRON- mind at Baskerville 
      Hall . " 

      " but what do -PRON- intend to do ? " 

      " -PRON- have no doubt , sir , that -PRON- shall succeed in establish 
      -PRON- in some business . Sir Charles 's generosity have give -PRON- the 
      mean to do so . and now , sir , perhaps -PRON- have good show -PRON- to -PRON- 
      room . " 

      a square balustrade gallery run round the top of the old hall , 
      approach by a double stair . from this central point two long 
      corridor extend the whole length of the building , from which all 
      the bedroom open . -PRON- own be in the same wing as Baskerville 's and 
      almost next door to -PRON- . these room appear to be much more modern 
      than the central part of the house , and the bright paper and numerous 
      candle do something to remove the sombre impression which -PRON- 
      arrival have leave upon -PRON- mind . 

      but the dining - room which open out of the hall be a place of 
      shadow and gloom . -PRON- be a long chamber with a step separate the 
      dais where the family sit from the low portion reserve for -PRON- 
      dependent . at one end a minstrel 's gallery overlook -PRON- . Black 
      beam shoot across above -PRON- head , with a smoke - darken ceiling 
      beyond -PRON- . with row of flare torch to light -PRON- up , and the 
      colour and rude hilarity of an old - time banquet , -PRON- may have 
      soften ; but now , when two black - clothe gentleman sit in the little 
      circle of light throw by a shaded lamp , one 's voice become hushed 
      and one 's spirit subdue . a dim line of ancestor , in every variety 
      of dress , from the Elizabethan knight to the buck of the Regency , 
      stare down upon -PRON- and daunt -PRON- by -PRON- silent company . -PRON- talk 
      little , and -PRON- for one be glad when the meal be over and -PRON- be 
      able to retire into the modern billiard - room and smoke a cigarette . 

      " -PRON- word , -PRON- be not a very cheerful place , " say Sir Henry . " -PRON- suppose 
      one can tone down to -PRON- , but -PRON- feel a bit out of the picture at 
      present . -PRON- do not wonder that -PRON- uncle get a little jumpy if -PRON- live 
      all alone in such a house as this . however , if -PRON- suit -PRON- , -PRON- will 
      retire early to - night , and perhaps thing may seem more cheerful in 
      the morning . " 

      -PRON- draw aside -PRON- curtain before -PRON- go to bed and look out from -PRON- 
      window . -PRON- open upon the grassy space which lie in front of the 
      hall door . beyond , two copse of tree moan and swing in a rise 
      wind . a half moon break through the rift of race cloud . in -PRON- 
      cold light -PRON- see beyond the tree a broken fringe of rock , and the 
      long , low curve of the melancholy moor . -PRON- close the curtain , feel 
      that -PRON- last impression be in keep with the rest . 

      and yet -PRON- be not quite the last . -PRON- find -PRON- weary and yet 
      wakeful , toss restlessly from side to side , seek for the sleep 
      which would not come . far away a chime clock strike out the 
      quarter of the hour , but otherwise a deathly silence lie upon the 
      old house . and then suddenly , in the very dead of the night , there 
      come a sound to -PRON- ear , clear , resonant , and unmistakable . -PRON- be 
      the sob of a woman , the muffled , strangle gasp of one who be tear 
      by an uncontrollable sorrow . -PRON- sit up in bed and listen intently . 
      the noise could not have be far away and be certainly in the 
      house . for half an hour -PRON- wait with every nerve on the alert , but 
      there come no other sound save the chime clock and the rustle of 
      the ivy on the wall . 





           CHAPTER VII 
           the Stapletons of Merripit House 


      the fresh beauty of the following morning do something to efface 
      from -PRON- mind the grim and gray impression which have be leave upon 
      both of -PRON- by -PRON- first experience of Baskerville Hall . as Sir Henry 
      and -PRON- sit at breakfast the sunlight flood in through the high 
      mullione window , throw watery patch of colour from the coat 
      of arm which cover -PRON- . the dark panelling glow like bronze in 
      the golden rays , and -PRON- be hard to realize that this be indeed the 
      chamber which have strike such a gloom into -PRON- soul upon the evening 
      before . 

      " -PRON- guess -PRON- be -PRON- and not the house that -PRON- have to blame ! " 
      say the baronet . " -PRON- be tired with -PRON- journey and chill by -PRON- 
      drive , so -PRON- take a gray view of the place . now -PRON- be fresh and 
      well , so -PRON- be all cheerful once more . " 

      " and yet -PRON- be not entirely a question of imagination , " -PRON- answer . 
      " do -PRON- , for example , happen to hear someone , a woman -PRON- think , 
      sob in the night ? " 

      " that be curious , for -PRON- do when -PRON- be half asleep fancy that -PRON- hear 
      something of the sort . -PRON- wait quite a time , but there be no more 
      of -PRON- , so -PRON- conclude that -PRON- be all a dream . " 

      " -PRON- hear -PRON- distinctly , and -PRON- be sure that -PRON- be really the sob of a 
      woman . " 

      " -PRON- must ask about this right away . " -PRON- ring the bell and ask 
      Barrymore whether -PRON- could account for -PRON- experience . -PRON- seem to 
      -PRON- that the pallid feature of the butler turn a shade paler still 
      as -PRON- listen to -PRON- master 's question . 

      " there be only two woman in the house , Sir Henry , " -PRON- answer . " one 
      be the scullery - maid , who sleep in the other wing . the other be -PRON- 
      wife , and -PRON- can answer for -PRON- that the sound could not have come from 
      -PRON- . " 

      and yet -PRON- lie as -PRON- say -PRON- , for -PRON- chance that after breakfast -PRON- 
      meet Mrs. Barrymore in the long corridor with the sun full upon -PRON- 
      face . -PRON- be a large , impassive , heavy - featured woman with a stern 
      set expression of mouth . but -PRON- tell - tale eye be red and glance 
      at -PRON- from between swollen lid . -PRON- be -PRON- , then , who weep in the 
      night , and if -PRON- do so -PRON- husband must know -PRON- . yet -PRON- have take 
      the obvious risk of discovery in declare that -PRON- be not so . why 
      have -PRON- do this ? and why do -PRON- weep so bitterly ? already round 
      this pale - faced , handsome , black - bearded man there be gather an 
      atmosphere of mystery and of gloom . -PRON- be -PRON- who have be the first 
      to discover the body of Sir Charles , and -PRON- have only -PRON- word for all 
      the circumstance which lead up to the old man 's death . be -PRON- 
      possible that -PRON- be Barrymore after all whom -PRON- have see in the cab 
      in Regent Street ? the beard may well have be the same . the cabman 
      have describe a somewhat short man , but such an impression may 
      easily have be erroneous . how could -PRON- settle the point forever ? 
      obviously the first thing to do be to see the Grimpen postmaster , 
      and find whether the test telegram have really be place in 
      Barrymore 's own hand . be the answer what -PRON- may , -PRON- should at least 
      have something to report to Sherlock Holmes . 

      Sir Henry have numerous paper to examine after breakfast , so that the 
      time be propitious for -PRON- excursion . -PRON- be a pleasant walk of four 
      mile along the edge of the moor , lead -PRON- at last to a small gray 
      hamlet , in which two large building , which prove to be the inn and 
      the house of Dr. Mortimer , stand high above the rest . the postmaster , 
      who be also the village grocer , have a clear recollection of the 
      telegram . 

      " certainly , sir , " say -PRON- , " -PRON- have the telegram deliver to Mr. 
      Barrymore exactly as direct . " 

      " who deliver -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- boy here . James , -PRON- deliver that telegram to Mr. Barrymore at 
      the Hall last week , do -PRON- not ? " 

      " yes , father , -PRON- deliver -PRON- . " 

      " into -PRON- own hand ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " well , -PRON- be up in the loft at the time , so that -PRON- could not put -PRON- 
      into -PRON- own hand , but -PRON- give -PRON- into Mrs. Barrymore 's hand , and 
      -PRON- promise to deliver -PRON- at once . " 

      " do -PRON- see Mr. Barrymore ? " 

      " no , sir ; -PRON- tell -PRON- -PRON- be in the loft . " 

      " if -PRON- do not see -PRON- , how do -PRON- know -PRON- be in the loft ? " 

      " well , surely -PRON- own wife ought to know where -PRON- be , " say the 
      postmaster testily . " do not -PRON- get the telegram ? if there be any 
      mistake -PRON- be for Mr. Barrymore -PRON- to complain . " 

      -PRON- seem hopeless to pursue the inquiry any farther , but -PRON- be 
      clear that in spite of Holmes 's ruse -PRON- have no proof that Barrymore 
      have not be in London all the time . suppose that -PRON- be so -- suppose 
      that the same man have be the last who have see Sir Charles alive , 
      and the first to dog the new heir when -PRON- return to England . what 
      then ? be -PRON- the agent of other or have -PRON- some sinister design of 
      -PRON- own ? what interest could -PRON- have in persecute the Baskerville 
      family ? -PRON- think of the strange warning clip out of the lead 
      article of the Times . be that -PRON- work or be -PRON- possibly the do 
      of someone who be bent upon counteract -PRON- scheme ? the only 
      conceivable motive be that which have be suggest by Sir Henry , 
      that if the family could be scare away a comfortable and permanent 
      home would be secure for the Barrymores . but surely such an 
      explanation as that would be quite inadequate to account for the deep 
      and subtle scheming which seem to be weave an invisible net round 
      the young baronet . Holmes -PRON- have say that no more complex case 
      have come to -PRON- in all the long series of -PRON- sensational 
      investigation . -PRON- pray , as -PRON- walk back along the gray , lonely 
      road , that -PRON- friend may soon be free from -PRON- preoccupation and 
      able to come down to take this heavy burden of responsibility from -PRON- 
      shoulder . 

      suddenly -PRON- thought be interrupt by the sound of run foot 
      behind -PRON- and by a voice which call -PRON- by name . -PRON- turn , expect 
      to see Dr. Mortimer , but to -PRON- surprise -PRON- be a stranger who be 
      pursue -PRON- . -PRON- be a small , slim , clean - shaven , prim - faced man , 
      flaxen - haired and lean - jawed , between thirty and forty year of age , 
      dress in a gray suit and wear a straw hat . a tin box for 
      botanical specimen hang over -PRON- shoulder and -PRON- carry a green 
      butterfly - net in one of -PRON- hand . 

      " -PRON- will , -PRON- be sure , excuse -PRON- presumption , Dr. Watson , " say -PRON- , as 
      -PRON- come pant up to where -PRON- stand . " here on the moor -PRON- be homely 
      folk and do not wait for formal introduction . -PRON- may possibly have 
      hear -PRON- name from -PRON- mutual friend , Mortimer . -PRON- be Stapleton , of 
      Merripit House . " 

      " -PRON- net and box would have tell -PRON- as much , " say -PRON- , " for -PRON- know 
      that Mr. Stapleton be a naturalist . but how do -PRON- know -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- have be call on Mortimer , and -PRON- point -PRON- out to -PRON- from 
      the window of -PRON- surgery as -PRON- pass . as -PRON- road lie the same way 
      -PRON- think that -PRON- would overtake -PRON- and introduce -PRON- . -PRON- trust 
      that Sir Henry be none the bad for -PRON- journey ? " 

      " -PRON- be very well , thank -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be all rather afraid that after the sad death of Sir Charles 
      the new baronet may refuse to live here . -PRON- be ask much of a 
      wealthy man to come down and bury -PRON- in a place of this kind , 
      but -PRON- need not tell -PRON- that -PRON- mean a very great deal to the 
      country - side . Sir Henry have , -PRON- suppose , no superstitious fear in the 
      matter ? " 

      " -PRON- do not think that -PRON- be likely . " 

      " of course -PRON- know the legend of the fiend dog which haunt the 
      family ? " 

      " -PRON- have hear -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- be extraordinary how credulous the peasant be about here ! any 
      number of -PRON- be ready to swear that -PRON- have see such a creature 
      upon the moor . " -PRON- speak with a smile , but -PRON- seem to read in -PRON- 
      eye that -PRON- take the matter more seriously . " the story take a great 
      hold upon the imagination of Sir Charles , and -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- 
      lead to -PRON- tragic end . " 

      " but how ? " 

      " -PRON- nerve be so work up that the appearance of any dog may 
      have have a fatal effect upon -PRON- disease heart . -PRON- fancy that -PRON- 
      really do see something of the kind upon that last night in the Yew 
      Alley . -PRON- fear that some disaster may occur , for -PRON- be very fond 
      of the old man , and -PRON- know that -PRON- heart be weak . " 

      " how do -PRON- know that ? " 

      " -PRON- friend Mortimer tell -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- think , then , that some dog pursue Sir Charles , and that -PRON- die 
      of fright in consequence ? " 

      " have -PRON- any well explanation ? " 

      " -PRON- have not come to any conclusion . " 

      " have Mr. Sherlock Holmes ? " 

      the word take away -PRON- breath for an instant , but a glance at the 
      placid face and steadfast eye of -PRON- companion show that no 
      surprise be intend . 

      " -PRON- be useless for -PRON- to pretend that -PRON- do not know -PRON- , Dr. 
      Watson , " say -PRON- . " the record of -PRON- detective have reach -PRON- 
      here , and -PRON- could not celebrate -PRON- without be know -PRON- . 
      when Mortimer tell -PRON- -PRON- name -PRON- could not deny -PRON- identity . if 
      -PRON- be here , then -PRON- follow that Mr. Sherlock Holmes be interesting 
      -PRON- in the matter , and -PRON- be naturally curious to know what view 
      -PRON- may take . " 

      " -PRON- be afraid that -PRON- can not answer that question . " 

      " May -PRON- ask if -PRON- be go to honour -PRON- with a visit -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- can not leave town at present . -PRON- have other case which engage -PRON- 
      attention . " 

      " what a pity ! -PRON- may throw some light on that which be so dark to 
      -PRON- . but as to -PRON- own research , if there be any possible way in 
      which -PRON- can be of service to -PRON- -PRON- trust that -PRON- will command -PRON- . if 
      -PRON- have any indication of the nature of -PRON- suspicion or how -PRON- 
      propose to investigate the case , -PRON- may perhaps even now give -PRON- 
      some aid or advice . " 

      " -PRON- assure -PRON- that -PRON- be simply here upon a visit to -PRON- friend , Sir 
      Henry , and that -PRON- need no help of any kind . " 

      " Excellent ! " say Stapleton . " -PRON- be perfectly right to be wary and 
      discreet . -PRON- be justly reprove for what -PRON- feel be an unjustifiable 
      intrusion , and -PRON- promise -PRON- that -PRON- will not mention the matter 
      again . " 

      -PRON- have come to a point where a narrow grassy path strike off from the 
      road and wind away across the moor . a steep , boulder - sprinkle hill 
      lie upon the right which have in bygone day be cut into a granite 
      quarry . the face which be turn towards -PRON- form a dark cliff , 
      with fern and bramble grow in -PRON- niche . from over a distant 
      rise there float a gray plume of smoke . 

      " a moderate walk along this moor - path bring -PRON- to Merripit House , " 
      say -PRON- . " perhaps -PRON- will spare an hour that -PRON- may have the pleasure 
      of introduce -PRON- to -PRON- sister . " 

      -PRON- first thought be that -PRON- should be by Sir Henry 's side . but then -PRON- 
      remember the pile of paper and bill with which -PRON- study table 
      be litter . -PRON- be certain that -PRON- could not help with those . and 
      Holmes have expressly say that -PRON- should study the neighbour upon the 
      moor . -PRON- accept Stapleton 's invitation , and -PRON- turn together down 
      the path . 

      " -PRON- be a wonderful place , the moor , " say -PRON- , look round over the 
      undulate down , long green roller , with crest of jagged granite 
      foam up into fantastic surge . " -PRON- never tire of the moor . -PRON- 
      can not think the wonderful secret which -PRON- contain . -PRON- be so vast , 
      and so barren , and so mysterious . " 

      " -PRON- know -PRON- well , then ? " 

      " -PRON- have only be here two year . the resident would call -PRON- a 
      newcomer . -PRON- come shortly after Sir Charles settle . but -PRON- taste 
      lead -PRON- to explore every part of the country round , and -PRON- should think 
      that there be few man who know -PRON- better than -PRON- do . " 

      " be -PRON- hard to know ? " 

      " very hard . -PRON- see , for example , this great plain to the north here 
      with the queer hill break out of -PRON- . do -PRON- observe anything 
      remarkable about that ? " 

      " -PRON- would be a rare place for a gallop . " 

      " -PRON- would naturally think so and the thought have cost several -PRON- 
      live before now . -PRON- notice those bright green spot scatter 
      thickly over -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- seem more fertile than the rest . " 

      Stapleton laugh . 

      " that be the great Grimpen Mire , " say -PRON- . " a false step yonder mean 
      death to man or beast . only yesterday -PRON- see one of the moor pony 
      wander into -PRON- . -PRON- never come out . -PRON- see -PRON- head for quite a long 
      time crane out of the bog - hole , but -PRON- suck -PRON- down at last . 
      even in dry season -PRON- be a danger to cross -PRON- , but after these 
      autumn rain -PRON- be an awful place . and yet -PRON- can find -PRON- way to the 
      very heart of -PRON- and return alive . by George , there be another of 
      those miserable pony ! " 

      Something brown be roll and toss among the green sedge . then 
      a long , agonized , writhing neck shoot upward and a dreadful cry echo 
      over the moor . -PRON- turn -PRON- cold with horror , but -PRON- companion 's 
      nerve seem to be strong than -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be go ! " say -PRON- . " the mire have -PRON- . two in two day , and many 
      more , perhaps , for -PRON- get in the way of go there in the dry 
      weather , and never know the difference until the mire have -PRON- in -PRON- 
      clutch . -PRON- be a bad place , the great Grimpen Mire . " 

      " and -PRON- say -PRON- can penetrate -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , there be one or two path which a very active man can take . -PRON- 
      have find -PRON- out . " 

      " but why should -PRON- wish to go into so horrible a place ? " 

      " well , -PRON- see the hill beyond ? -PRON- be really island cut off on 
      all side by the impassable mire , which have crawl round -PRON- in the 
      course of year . that be where the rare plant and the butterfly 
      be , if -PRON- have the wit to reach -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- shall try -PRON- luck some day . " 

      -PRON- look at -PRON- with a surprised face . 

      " for God 's sake put such an idea out of -PRON- mind , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- 
      blood would be upon -PRON- head . -PRON- assure -PRON- that there would not be the 
      least chance of -PRON- come back alive . -PRON- be only by remember 
      certain complex landmark that -PRON- be able to do -PRON- . " 

      " Halloa ! " -PRON- cry . " what be that ? " 

      a long , low moan , indescribably sad , sweep over the moor . -PRON- fill 
      the whole air , and yet -PRON- be impossible to say whence -PRON- come . from 
      a dull murmur -PRON- swell into a deep roar , and then sink back into a 
      melancholy , throb murmur once again . Stapleton look at -PRON- with 
      a curious expression in -PRON- face . 

      " queer place , the moor ! " say -PRON- . 

      " but what be -PRON- ? " 

      " the peasant say -PRON- be the Hound of the Baskervilles call for -PRON- 
      prey . -PRON- have hear -PRON- once or twice before , but never quite so loud . " 

      -PRON- look round , with a chill of fear in -PRON- heart , at the huge 
      swell plain , mottle with the green patch of rush . nothing 
      stir over the vast expanse save a pair of raven , which croak 
      loudly from a tor behind -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be an educated man . -PRON- do not believe such nonsense as that ? " 
      say I. " what do -PRON- think be the cause of so strange a sound ? " 

      " bog make queer noise sometimes . -PRON- be the mud settling , or the 
      water rise , or something . " 

      " no , no , that be a live voice . " 

      " well , perhaps -PRON- be . do -PRON- ever hear a bittern booming ? " 

      " no , -PRON- never do . " 

      " -PRON- be a very rare bird -- practically extinct -- in England now , but all 
      thing be possible upon the moor . yes , -PRON- should not be surprised to 
      learn that what -PRON- have hear be the cry of the last of the 
      bittern . " 

      " -PRON- be the weird , strange thing that ever -PRON- hear in -PRON- life . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be rather an uncanny place altogether . look at the hill - side 
      yonder . what do -PRON- make of those ? " 

      the whole steep slope be cover with gray circular ring of stone , 
      a score of -PRON- at least . 

      " what be -PRON- ? sheep - pen ? " 

      " no , -PRON- be the home of -PRON- worthy ancestor . prehistoric man 
      live thickly on the moor , and as no one in particular have live 
      there since , -PRON- find all -PRON- little arrangement exactly as -PRON- leave 
      -PRON- . these be -PRON- wigwam with the roof off . -PRON- can even see -PRON- 
      hearth and -PRON- couch if -PRON- have the curiosity to go inside . " 

      " but -PRON- be quite a town . when be -PRON- inhabit ? " 

      " neolithic man -- no date . " 

      " what do -PRON- do ? " 

      " -PRON- graze -PRON- cattle on these slope , and -PRON- learn to dig for tin 
      when the bronze sword begin to supersede the stone axe . look at the 
      great trench in the opposite hill . that be -PRON- mark . yes , -PRON- will 
      find some very singular point about the moor , Dr. Watson . oh , excuse 
      -PRON- an instant ! -PRON- be surely cyclopide . " 

      a small fly or moth have flutter across -PRON- path , and in an instant 
      Stapleton be rush with extraordinary energy and speed in pursuit 
      of -PRON- . to -PRON- dismay the creature fly straight for the great mire , 
      and -PRON- acquaintance never pause for an instant , bound from tuft 
      to tuft behind -PRON- , -PRON- green net wave in the air . -PRON- gray clothe 
      and jerky , zigzag , irregular progress make -PRON- not unlike some huge 
      moth -PRON- . -PRON- be stand watch -PRON- pursuit with a mixture of 
      admiration for -PRON- extraordinary activity and fear lest -PRON- should 
      lose -PRON- footing in the treacherous mire , when -PRON- hear the sound of 
      step , and turn round find a woman near -PRON- upon the path . -PRON- have 
      come from the direction in which the plume of smoke indicate the 
      position of Merripit House , but the dip of the moor have hide -PRON- until 
      -PRON- be quite close . 

      -PRON- could not doubt that this be the Miss Stapleton of whom -PRON- have be 
      tell , since lady of any sort must be few upon the moor , and -PRON- 
      remember that -PRON- have hear someone describe -PRON- as be a beauty . 
      the woman who approach -PRON- be certainly that , and of a most 
      uncommon type . there could not have be a great contrast between 
      brother and sister , for Stapleton be neutral tint , with light hair 
      and gray eye , while -PRON- be dark than any brunette whom -PRON- have 
      see in England -- slim , elegant , and tall . -PRON- have a proud , finely cut 
      face , so regular that -PRON- may have seem impassive be -PRON- not for 
      the sensitive mouth and the beautiful dark , eager eye . with -PRON- 
      perfect figure and elegant dress -PRON- be , indeed , a strange 
      apparition upon a lonely moorland path . -PRON- eye be on -PRON- brother 
      as -PRON- turn , and then -PRON- quicken -PRON- pace towards -PRON- . -PRON- have raise 
      -PRON- hat and be about to make some explanatory remark , when -PRON- own 
      word turn all -PRON- thought into a new channel . 

      " go back ! " -PRON- say . " go straight back to London , instantly . " 

      -PRON- could only stare at -PRON- in stupid surprise . -PRON- eye blaze at -PRON- , 
      and -PRON- tap the ground impatiently with -PRON- foot . 

      " why should -PRON- go back ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- can not explain . " -PRON- speak in a low , eager voice , with a curious 
      lisp in -PRON- utterance . " but for God 's sake do what -PRON- ask -PRON- . go back 
      and never set foot upon the moor again . " 

      " but -PRON- have only just come . " 

      " man , man ! " -PRON- cry . " Can -PRON- not tell when a warning be for -PRON- 
      own good ? go back to London ! start to - night ! get away from this place 
      at all cost ! Hush , -PRON- brother be come ! not a word of what -PRON- have 
      say . Would -PRON- mind get that orchid for -PRON- among the mare - tail 
      yonder ? -PRON- be very rich in orchid on the moor , though , of course , 
      -PRON- be rather late to see the beauty of the place . " 

      Stapleton have abandon the chase and come back to -PRON- breathe hard 
      and flush with -PRON- exertion . 

      " Halloa , Beryl ! " say -PRON- , and -PRON- seem to -PRON- that the tone of -PRON- 
      greeting be not altogether a cordial one . 

      " well , Jack , -PRON- be very hot . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be chase a Cyclopides . -PRON- be very rare and seldom find in 
      the late autumn . what a pity that -PRON- should have miss -PRON- ! " -PRON- speak 
      unconcernedly , but -PRON- small light eye glance incessantly from the 
      girl to -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- have introduce yourself , -PRON- can see . " 

      " yes . -PRON- be tell Sir Henry that -PRON- be rather late for -PRON- to see 
      the true beauty of the moor . " 

      " why , who do -PRON- think this be ? " 

      " -PRON- imagine that -PRON- must be Sir Henry Baskerville . " 

      " no , no , " say I. " only a humble commoner , but -PRON- friend . -PRON- name be 
      Dr. Watson . " 

      a flush of vexation pass over -PRON- expressive face . " -PRON- have be 
      talk at cross purpose , " say -PRON- . 

      " why , -PRON- have not very much time for talk , " -PRON- brother remark with 
      the same questioning eye . 

      " -PRON- talk as if Dr. Watson be a resident instead of be merely a 
      visitor , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- can not much matter to -PRON- whether -PRON- be early 
      or late for the orchid . but -PRON- will come on , will -PRON- not , and see 
      Merripit House ? " 

      a short walk bring -PRON- to -PRON- , a bleak moorland house , once the farm 
      of some grazier in the old prosperous day , but now put into repair 
      and turn into a modern dwelling . an orchard surround -PRON- , but the 
      tree , as be usual upon the moor , be stunt and nipped , and the 
      effect of the whole place be mean and melancholy . -PRON- be admit 
      by a strange , wizene , rusty - coat old manservant , who seem in 
      keep with the house . inside , however , there be large room 
      furnish with an elegance in which -PRON- seem to recognize the taste 
      of the lady . as -PRON- look from -PRON- window at the interminable 
      granite - flecked moor roll unbroken to the farth horizon -PRON- could 
      not but marvel at what could have bring this highly educate man 
      and this beautiful woman to live in such a place . 

      " queer spot to choose , be -PRON- not ? " say -PRON- as if in answer to -PRON- 
      think . " and yet -PRON- manage to make -PRON- fairly happy , do -PRON- 
      not , Beryl ? " 

      " quite happy , " say -PRON- , but there be no ring of conviction in -PRON- 
      word . 

      " -PRON- have a school , " say Stapleton . " -PRON- be in the north country . the 
      work to a man of -PRON- temperament be mechanical and uninteresting , but 
      the privilege of live with youth , of help to mould those young 
      mind , and of impress -PRON- with one 's own character and ideal , 
      be very dear to -PRON- . however , the fate be against -PRON- . a serious 
      epidemic break out in the school and three of the boy die . -PRON- never 
      recover from the blow , and much of -PRON- capital be irretrievably 
      swallow up . and yet , if -PRON- be not for the loss of the charming 
      companionship of the boy , -PRON- could rejoice over -PRON- own misfortune , 
      for , with -PRON- strong taste for botany and zoology , -PRON- find an 
      unlimited field of work here , and -PRON- sister be as devoted to Nature 
      as -PRON- be . all this , Dr. Watson , have be bring upon -PRON- head by 
      -PRON- expression as -PRON- survey the moor out of -PRON- window . " 

      " -PRON- certainly do cross -PRON- mind that -PRON- may be a little dull -- less 
      for -PRON- , perhaps , than for -PRON- sister . " 

      " no , no , -PRON- be never dull , " say -PRON- , quickly . 

      " -PRON- have book , -PRON- have -PRON- study , and -PRON- have interesting 
      neighbour . Dr. Mortimer be a most learned man in -PRON- own line . poor 
      Sir Charles be also an admirable companion . -PRON- know -PRON- well , and 
      miss -PRON- more than -PRON- can tell . do -PRON- think that -PRON- should intrude if 
      -PRON- be to call this afternoon and make the acquaintance of Sir 
      Henry ? " 

      " -PRON- be sure that -PRON- would be delighted . " 

      " then perhaps -PRON- would mention that -PRON- propose to do so . -PRON- may in 
      -PRON- humble way do something to make thing more easy for -PRON- until -PRON- 
      become accustomed to -PRON- new surrounding . Will -PRON- come upstairs , 
      Dr. Watson , and inspect -PRON- collection of Lepidoptera ? -PRON- think -PRON- be 
      the most complete one in the south - west of England . by the time that 
      -PRON- have look through -PRON- lunch will be almost ready . " 

      but -PRON- be eager to get back to -PRON- charge . the melancholy of the moor , 
      the death of the unfortunate pony , the weird sound which have be 
      associate with the grim legend of the Baskervilles , all these thing 
      tinge -PRON- thought with sadness . then on the top of these more or 
      less vague impression there have come the definite and distinct 
      warning of Miss Stapleton , deliver with such intense earnestness 
      that -PRON- could not doubt that some grave and deep reason lie behind -PRON- . 
      -PRON- resist all pressure to stay for lunch , and -PRON- set off at once upon 
      -PRON- return journey , take the grass - grow path by which -PRON- have come . 

      -PRON- seem , however , that there must have be some short cut for those 
      who know -PRON- , for before -PRON- have reach the road -PRON- be astounded to see 
      Miss Stapleton sit upon a rock by the side of the track . -PRON- face 
      be beautifully flush with -PRON- exertion , and -PRON- hold -PRON- hand to 
      -PRON- side . 

      " -PRON- have run all the way in order to cut -PRON- off , Dr. Watson , " say 
      -PRON- . " -PRON- have not even time to put on -PRON- hat . -PRON- must not stop , or -PRON- 
      brother may miss -PRON- . -PRON- want to say to -PRON- how sorry -PRON- be about the 
      stupid mistake -PRON- make in think that -PRON- be Sir Henry . please 
      forget the word -PRON- say , which have no application whatever to -PRON- . " 

      " but -PRON- can not forget -PRON- , Miss Stapleton , " say I. " -PRON- be Sir Henry 's 
      friend , and -PRON- welfare be a very close concern of -PRON- . tell -PRON- why 
      -PRON- be that -PRON- be so eager that Sir Henry should return to 
      London . " 

      " a woman 's whim , Dr. Watson . when -PRON- know -PRON- better -PRON- will 
      understand that -PRON- can not always give reason for what -PRON- say or do . " 

      " no , no . -PRON- remember the thrill in -PRON- voice . -PRON- remember the look in 
      -PRON- eye . please , please , be frank with -PRON- , Miss Stapleton , for ever 
      since -PRON- have be here -PRON- have be conscious of shadow all round -PRON- . 
      life have become like that great Grimpen Mire , with little green 
      patch everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to point 
      the track . tell -PRON- then what -PRON- be that -PRON- mean , and -PRON- will 
      promise to convey -PRON- warning to Sir Henry . " 

      an expression of irresolution pass for an instant over -PRON- face , 
      but -PRON- eye have harden again when -PRON- answer -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- make too much of -PRON- , Dr. Watson , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- brother and -PRON- 
      be very much shock by the death of Sir Charles . -PRON- know -PRON- very 
      intimately , for -PRON- favourite walk be over the moor to -PRON- house . -PRON- 
      be deeply impressed with the curse which hang over the family , and 
      when this tragedy come -PRON- naturally feel that there must be some 
      ground for the fear which -PRON- have express . -PRON- be distressed 
      therefore when another member of the family come down to live here , 
      and -PRON- feel that -PRON- should be warn of the danger which -PRON- will run . 
      that be all which -PRON- intend to convey . 

      " but what be the danger ? " 

      " -PRON- know the story of the hound ? " 

      " -PRON- do not believe in such nonsense . " 

      " but -PRON- do . if -PRON- have any influence with Sir Henry , take -PRON- away 
      from a place which have always be fatal to -PRON- family . the world be 
      wide . why should -PRON- wish to live at the place of danger ? " 

      " because -PRON- be the place of danger . that be Sir Henry 's nature . -PRON- 
      fear that unless -PRON- can give -PRON- some more definite information than 
      this -PRON- would be impossible to get -PRON- to move . " 

      " -PRON- can not say anything definite , for -PRON- do not know anything 
      definite . " 

      " -PRON- would ask -PRON- one more question , Miss Stapleton . if -PRON- mean no 
      more than this when -PRON- first speak to -PRON- , why should -PRON- not wish 
      -PRON- brother to overhear what -PRON- say ? there be nothing to which -PRON- , 
      or anyone else , could object . " 

      " -PRON- brother be very anxious to have the Hall inhabit , for -PRON- think 
      -PRON- be for the good of the poor folk upon the moor . -PRON- would be very 
      angry if -PRON- know that -PRON- have say anything which may induce Sir 
      Henry to go away . but -PRON- have do -PRON- duty now and -PRON- will say no more . 
      -PRON- must get back , or -PRON- will miss -PRON- and suspect that -PRON- have see -PRON- . 
      good - bye ! " -PRON- turn and have disappear in a few minute among the 
      scatter boulder , while -PRON- , with -PRON- soul full of vague fear , 
      pursue -PRON- way to Baskerville Hall . 





           CHAPTER VIII 
           First Report of Dr. Watson 


      from this point onward -PRON- will follow the course of event by 
      transcribe -PRON- own letter to Mr. Sherlock Holmes which lie before 
      -PRON- on the table . one page be missing , but otherwise -PRON- be exactly 
      as write and show -PRON- feeling and suspicion of the moment more 
      accurately than -PRON- memory , clear as -PRON- be upon these tragic event , 
      can possibly do . 

      Baskerville Hall , October 13th . 

      -PRON- dear Holmes : 
      -PRON- previous letter and telegram have keep -PRON- pretty well up to 
      date as to all that have occur in this most God - forsake corner of 
      the world . the long one stay here the more do the spirit of the 
      moor sink into one 's soul , -PRON- vastness , and also -PRON- grim charm . 
      when -PRON- be once out upon -PRON- bosom -PRON- have leave all trace of 
      modern England behind -PRON- , but on the other hand -PRON- be conscious 
      everywhere of the home and the work of the prehistoric people . on 
      all side of -PRON- as -PRON- walk be the house of these forget folk , 
      with -PRON- grave and the huge monolith which be suppose to have 
      mark -PRON- temple . as -PRON- look at -PRON- gray stone hut against 
      the scar hill - side -PRON- leave -PRON- own age behind -PRON- , and if -PRON- 
      be to see a skin - clothe , hairy man crawl out from the low door 
      fit a flint - tip arrow on to the string of -PRON- bow , -PRON- would 
      feel that -PRON- presence there be more natural than -PRON- own . the 
      strange thing be that -PRON- should have live so thickly on what must 
      always have be most unfruitful soil . -PRON- be no antiquarian , but -PRON- 
      could imagine that -PRON- be some unwarlike and harry race who be 
      force to accept that which none other would occupy . 

      all this , however , be foreign to the mission on which -PRON- send -PRON- and 
      will probably be very uninteresting to -PRON- severely practical mind . 
      -PRON- can still remember -PRON- complete indifference as to whether the sun 
      move round the earth or the earth round the sun . let -PRON- , therefore , 
      return to the fact concern Sir Henry Baskerville . 

      if -PRON- have not have any report within the last few day -PRON- be because 
      up to to - day there be nothing of importance to relate . then a very 
      surprising circumstance occur , which -PRON- shall tell -PRON- in due 
      course . but , first of all , -PRON- must keep -PRON- in touch with some of the 
      other factor in the situation . 

      one of these , concern which -PRON- have say little , be the escape 
      convict upon the moor . there be strong reason now to believe that -PRON- 
      have get right away , which be a considerable relief to the lonely 
      householder of this district . a fortnight have pass since -PRON- 
      flight , during which -PRON- have not be see and nothing have be hear 
      of -PRON- . -PRON- be surely inconceivable that -PRON- could have hold out upon 
      the moor during all that time . of course , so far as -PRON- concealment 
      go there be no difficulty at all . any one of these stone hut would 
      give -PRON- a hiding - place . but there be nothing to eat unless -PRON- be 
      to catch and slaughter one of the moor sheep . -PRON- think , therefore , 
      that -PRON- have go , and the outlying farmer sleep the well in 
      consequence . 

      -PRON- be four able - bodied man in this household , so that -PRON- could take 
      good care of -PRON- , but -PRON- confess that -PRON- have have uneasy moment 
      when -PRON- have think of the Stapletons . -PRON- live mile from any help . 
      there be one maid , an old manservant , the sister , and the brother , 
      the latter not a very strong man . -PRON- would be helpless in the hand 
      of a desperate fellow like this Notting Hill criminal , if -PRON- could 
      once effect an entrance . both Sir Henry and -PRON- be concerned at -PRON- 
      situation , and -PRON- be suggest that perkin the groom should go over 
      to sleep there , but Stapleton would not hear of -PRON- . 

      the fact be that -PRON- friend , the baronet , begin to display a 
      considerable interest in -PRON- fair neighbour . -PRON- be not to be wonder 
      at , for time hang heavily in this lonely spot to an active man like 
      -PRON- , and -PRON- be a very fascinating and beautiful woman . there be 
      something tropical and exotic about -PRON- which form a singular 
      contrast to -PRON- cool and unemotional brother . yet -PRON- also give the 
      idea of hide fire . -PRON- have certainly a very marked influence over 
      -PRON- , for -PRON- have see -PRON- continually glance at -PRON- as -PRON- talk as 
      if seek approbation for what -PRON- say . -PRON- trust that -PRON- be kind to 
      -PRON- . there be a dry glitter in -PRON- eye , and a firm set of -PRON- thin 
      lip , which go with a positive and possibly a harsh nature . -PRON- 
      would find -PRON- an interesting study . 

      -PRON- come over to call upon Baskerville on that first day , and the very 
      next morning -PRON- take -PRON- both to show -PRON- the spot where the legend of 
      the wicked Hugo be suppose to have have -PRON- origin . -PRON- be an 
      excursion of some mile across the moor to a place which be so dismal 
      that -PRON- may have suggest the story . -PRON- find a short valley 
      between rugged tor which lead to an open , grassy space fleck over 
      with the white cotton grass . in the middle of -PRON- rise two great 
      stone , wear and sharpen at the upper end , until -PRON- look like 
      the huge corrode fang of some monstrous beast . in every way -PRON- 
      correspond with the scene of the old tragedy . Sir Henry be much 
      interested and ask Stapleton more than once whether -PRON- do really 
      believe in the possibility of the interference of the supernatural in 
      the affair of man . -PRON- speak lightly , but -PRON- be evident that -PRON- be 
      very much in earnest . Stapleton be guard in -PRON- reply , but -PRON- 
      be easy to see that -PRON- say less than -PRON- may , and that -PRON- would 
      not express -PRON- whole opinion out of consideration for the feeling 
      of the baronet . -PRON- tell -PRON- of similar case , where family have 
      suffer from some evil influence , and -PRON- leave -PRON- with the impression 
      that -PRON- share the popular view upon the matter . 

      on -PRON- way back -PRON- stay for lunch at Merripit House , and -PRON- be 
      there that Sir Henry make the acquaintance of Miss Stapleton . from 
      the first moment that -PRON- see -PRON- -PRON- appear to be strongly attract 
      by -PRON- , and -PRON- be much mistake if the feeling be not mutual . -PRON- 
      refer to -PRON- again and again on -PRON- walk home , and since then 
      hardly a day have pass that -PRON- have not see something of the 
      brother and sister . -PRON- dine here to - night , and there be some talk 
      of -PRON- go to -PRON- next week . one would imagine that such a match 
      would be very welcome to Stapleton , and yet -PRON- have more than once 
      catch a look of the strong disapprobation in -PRON- face when Sir 
      Henry have be pay some attention to -PRON- sister . -PRON- be much 
      attach to -PRON- , no doubt , and would lead a lonely life without -PRON- , 
      but -PRON- would seem the height of selfishness if -PRON- be to stand in 
      the way of -PRON- make so brilliant a marriage . yet -PRON- be certain that 
      -PRON- do not wish -PRON- intimacy to ripen into love , and -PRON- have 
      several time observe that -PRON- have take pain to prevent -PRON- from 
      be tte -  - tte . by the way , -PRON- instruction to -PRON- never to allow 
      Sir Henry to go out alone will become very much more onerous if a 
      love affair be to be add to -PRON- other difficulty . -PRON- popularity 
      would soon suffer if -PRON- be to carry out -PRON- order to the letter . 

      the other day -- Thursday , to be more exact -- Dr . Mortimer lunch with 
      -PRON- . -PRON- have be excavate a barrow at Long Down , and have get a 
      prehistoric skull which fill -PRON- with great joy . never be there 
      such a single - minded enthusiast as -PRON- ! the Stapletons come in 
      afterwards , and the good doctor take -PRON- all to the Yew Alley , at Sir 
      Henry 's request , to show -PRON- exactly how everything occur upon that 
      fatal night . -PRON- be a long , dismal walk , the Yew Alley , between two 
      high wall of clip hedge , with a narrow band of grass upon either 
      side . at the far end be an old tumble - down summer - house . half - way 
      down be the moor - gate , where the old gentleman leave -PRON- cigar - ash . -PRON- 
      be a white wooden gate with a latch . beyond -PRON- lie the wide moor . -PRON- 
      remember -PRON- theory of the affair and try to picture all that 
      have occur . as the old man stand there -PRON- see something come 
      across the moor , something which terrify -PRON- so that -PRON- lose -PRON- 
      wit , and run and run until -PRON- die of sheer horror and exhaustion . 
      there be the long , gloomy tunnel down which -PRON- flee . and from what ? 
      a sheep - dog of the moor ? or a spectral hound , black , silent , and 
      monstrous ? be there a human agency in the matter ? do the pale , 
      watchful Barrymore know more than -PRON- care to say ? -PRON- be all dim and 
      vague , but always there be the dark shadow of crime behind -PRON- . 

      one other neighbour -PRON- have meet since -PRON- write last . this be Mr. 
      Frankland , of Lafter Hall , who live some four mile to the south of 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be an elderly man , red - faced , white - haired , and choleric . -PRON- 
      passion be for the british law , and -PRON- have spend a large fortune in 
      litigation . -PRON- fight for the mere pleasure of fighting and be 
      equally ready to take up either side of a question , so that -PRON- be no 
      wonder that -PRON- have find -PRON- a costly amusement . sometimes -PRON- will 
      shut up a right of way and defy the parish to make -PRON- open -PRON- . at 
      other -PRON- will with -PRON- own hand tear down some other man 's gate and 
      declare that a path have exist there from time immemorial , defy 
      the owner to prosecute -PRON- for trespass . -PRON- be learn in old 
      manorial and communal right , and -PRON- apply -PRON- knowledge sometimes 
      in favour of the villager of Fernworthy and sometimes against -PRON- , 
      so that -PRON- be periodically either carry in triumph down the village 
      street or else burn in effigy , accord to -PRON- late exploit . -PRON- 
      be say to have about seven lawsuit upon -PRON- hand at present , which 
      will probably swallow up the remainder of -PRON- fortune and so draw -PRON- 
      ste and leave -PRON- harmless for the future . apart from the law -PRON- 
      seem a kindly , good - natured person , and -PRON- only mention -PRON- because 
      -PRON- be particular that -PRON- should send some description of the people 
      who surround -PRON- . -PRON- be curiously employ at present , for , be an 
      amateur astronomer , -PRON- have an excellent telescope , with which -PRON- lie 
      upon the roof of -PRON- own house and sweep the moor all day in the 
      hope of catch a glimpse of the escape convict . if -PRON- would 
      confine -PRON- energy to this all would be well , but there be rumours 
      that -PRON- intend to prosecute Dr. Mortimer for open a grave without 
      the consent of the next - of - kin , because -PRON- dig up the neolithic skull 
      in the barrow on Long Down . -PRON- help to keep -PRON- life from be 
      monotonous and give a little comic relief where -PRON- be badly need . 

      and now , have bring -PRON- up to date in the escape convict , the 
      Stapletons , Dr. Mortimer , and Frankland , of Lafter Hall , let -PRON- end 
      on that which be most important and tell -PRON- more about the 
      Barrymores , and especially about the surprising development of last 
      night . 

      first of all about the test telegram , which -PRON- send from London in 
      order to make sure that Barrymore be really here . -PRON- have already 
      explain that the testimony of the postmaster show that the test 
      be worthless and that -PRON- have no proof one way or the other . -PRON- tell 
      Sir Henry how the matter stand , and -PRON- at once , in -PRON- downright 
      fashion , have Barrymore up and ask -PRON- whether -PRON- have receive the 
      telegram -PRON- . Barrymore say that -PRON- have . 

      " do the boy deliver -PRON- into -PRON- own hand ? " ask Sir Henry . 

      Barrymore look surprised , and consider for a little time . 

      " no , " say -PRON- , " -PRON- be in the box - room at the time , and -PRON- wife 
      bring -PRON- up to -PRON- . " 

      " do -PRON- answer -PRON- -PRON- ? " 

      " no ; -PRON- tell -PRON- wife what to answer and -PRON- go down to write -PRON- . " 

      in the evening -PRON- recur to the subject of -PRON- own accord . 

      " -PRON- could not quite understand the object of -PRON- question this 
      morning , Sir Henry , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- trust that -PRON- do not mean that -PRON- 
      have do anything to forfeit -PRON- confidence ? " 

      Sir Henry have to assure -PRON- that -PRON- be not so and pacify -PRON- by 
      give -PRON- a considerable part of -PRON- old wardrobe , the London outfit 
      have now all arrive . 

      Mrs. Barrymore be of interest to -PRON- . -PRON- be a heavy , solid person , 
      very limited , intensely respectable , and incline to be puritanical . 
      -PRON- could hardly conceive a less emotional subject . yet -PRON- have tell 
      -PRON- how , on the first night here , -PRON- hear -PRON- sob bitterly , and 
      since then -PRON- have more than once observe trace of tear upon -PRON- 
      face . some deep sorrow gnaw ever at -PRON- heart . sometimes -PRON- wonder if 
      -PRON- have a guilty memory which haunt -PRON- , and sometimes -PRON- suspect 
      Barrymore of be a domestic tyrant . -PRON- have always feel that there 
      be something singular and questionable in this man 's character , but 
      the adventure of last night bring all -PRON- suspicion to a head . 

      and yet -PRON- may seem a small matter in -PRON- . -PRON- be aware that -PRON- be 
      not a very sound sleeper , and since -PRON- have be on guard in this 
      house -PRON- slumber have be light than ever . last night , about two 
      in the morning , -PRON- be arouse by a stealthy step pass -PRON- room . -PRON- 
      rise , open -PRON- door , and peep out . a long black shadow be 
      trail down the corridor . -PRON- be throw by a man who walk softly 
      down the passage with a candle hold in -PRON- hand . -PRON- be in shirt and 
      trouser , with no covering to -PRON- foot . -PRON- could merely see the 
      outline , but -PRON- height tell -PRON- that -PRON- be Barrymore . -PRON- walk very 
      slowly and circumspectly , and there be something indescribably 
      guilty and furtive in -PRON- whole appearance . 

      -PRON- have tell -PRON- that the corridor be break by the balcony which run 
      round the hall , but that -PRON- be resume upon the farther side . -PRON- 
      wait until -PRON- have pass out of sight and then -PRON- follow -PRON- . when 
      -PRON- come round the balcony -PRON- have reach the end of the farth 
      corridor , and -PRON- could see from the glimmer of light through an open 
      door that -PRON- have enter one of the room . now , all these room be 
      unfurnished and unoccupied , so that -PRON- expedition become more 
      mysterious than ever . the light shine steadily as if -PRON- be stand 
      motionless . -PRON- creep down the passage as noiselessly as -PRON- could and 
      peep round the corner of the door . 

      Barrymore be crouch at the window with the candle hold against 
      the glass . -PRON- profile be half turn towards -PRON- , and -PRON- face 
      seem to be rigid with expectation as -PRON- stare out into the 
      blackness of the moor . for some minute -PRON- stand watch intently . 
      then -PRON- give a deep groan and with an impatient gesture -PRON- put out 
      the light . instantly -PRON- make -PRON- way back to -PRON- room , and very shortly 
      come the stealthy step pass once more upon -PRON- return journey . 
      long afterwards when -PRON- have fall into a light sleep -PRON- hear a key 
      turn somewhere in a lock , but -PRON- could not tell whence the sound come . 
      what -PRON- all mean -PRON- can not guess , but there be some secret business 
      go on in this house of gloom which sooner or later -PRON- shall get to 
      the bottom of . -PRON- do not trouble -PRON- with -PRON- theory , for -PRON- ask 
      -PRON- to furnish -PRON- only with fact . -PRON- have have a long talk with Sir 
      Henry this morning , and -PRON- have make a plan of campaign found upon 
      -PRON- observation of last night . -PRON- will not speak about -PRON- just now , 
      but -PRON- should make -PRON- next report interesting reading . 





           CHAPTER IX 
           Second Report of Dr. Watson 


                              the LIGHT upon the MOOR 

      Baskerville Hall , October 15th . 

      -PRON- dear Holmes : 
      if -PRON- be compel to leave -PRON- without much news during the early 
      day of -PRON- mission -PRON- must acknowledge that -PRON- be make up for lost 
      time , and that event be now crowd thick and fast upon -PRON- . in -PRON- 
      last report -PRON- end upon -PRON- top note with Barrymore at the window , 
      and now -PRON- have quite a budget already which will , unless -PRON- be much 
      mistaken , considerably surprise -PRON- . thing have take a turn which -PRON- 
      could not have anticipate . in some way -PRON- have within the last 
      forty - eight hour become much clear and in some way -PRON- have 
      become more complicated . but -PRON- will tell -PRON- all and -PRON- shall judge 
      for -PRON- . 

      before breakfast on the morning follow -PRON- adventure -PRON- go down 
      the corridor and examine the room in which Barrymore have be on the 
      night before . the western window through which -PRON- have stare so 
      intently have , -PRON- notice , one peculiarity above all other window in 
      the house -- -PRON- command the near outlook on the moor . there be an 
      open between two tree which enable one from this point of view 
      to look right down upon -PRON- , while from all the other window -PRON- be 
      only a distant glimpse which can be obtain . -PRON- follow , therefore , 
      that Barrymore , since only this window would serve the purpose , must 
      have be look out for something or somebody upon the moor . the 
      night be very dark , so that -PRON- can hardly imagine how -PRON- could have 
      hope to see anyone . -PRON- have strike -PRON- that -PRON- be possible that some 
      love intrigue be on foot . that would have account for -PRON- stealthy 
      movement and also for the uneasiness of -PRON- wife . the man be a 
      strike - look fellow , very well equipped to steal the heart of a 
      country girl , so that this theory seem to have something to support 
      -PRON- . that opening of the door which -PRON- have hear after -PRON- have return 
      to -PRON- room may mean that -PRON- have go out to keep some clandestine 
      appointment . so -PRON- reason with -PRON- in the morning , and -PRON- tell -PRON- 
      the direction of -PRON- suspicion , however much the result may have 
      show that -PRON- be unfounded . 

      but whatever the true explanation of Barrymore 's movement may be , 
      -PRON- feel that the responsibility of keep -PRON- to -PRON- until -PRON- 
      could explain -PRON- be more than -PRON- could bear . -PRON- have an interview 
      with the baronet in -PRON- study after breakfast , and -PRON- tell -PRON- all 
      that -PRON- have see . -PRON- be less surprised than -PRON- have expect . 

      " -PRON- know that Barrymore walk about night , and -PRON- have a mind to speak 
      to -PRON- about -PRON- , " say -PRON- . " two or three time -PRON- have hear -PRON- step 
      in the passage , come and go , just about the hour -PRON- name . " 

      " perhaps then -PRON- pay a visit every night to that particular window , " 
      -PRON- suggest . 

      " perhaps -PRON- do . if so , -PRON- should be able to shadow -PRON- , and see 
      what -PRON- be that -PRON- be after . -PRON- wonder what -PRON- friend Holmes would 
      do , if -PRON- be here . " 

      " -PRON- believe that -PRON- would do exactly what -PRON- now suggest , " say I. 
      " -PRON- would follow Barrymore and see what -PRON- do . " 

      " then -PRON- shall do -PRON- together . " 

      " but surely -PRON- would hear -PRON- . " 

      " the man be rather deaf , and in any case -PRON- must take -PRON- chance of 
      that . -PRON- will sit up in -PRON- room to - night and wait until -PRON- pass . " Sir 
      Henry rub -PRON- hand with pleasure , and -PRON- be evident that -PRON- 
      hail the adventure as a relief to -PRON- somewhat quiet life upon the 
      moor . 

      the baronet have be in communication with the architect who prepare 
      the plan for Sir Charles , and with a contractor from London , so that 
      -PRON- may expect great change to begin here soon . there have be 
      decorator and furnisher up from Plymouth , and -PRON- be evident that 
      -PRON- friend have large idea , and mean to spare no pain or expense to 
      restore the grandeur of -PRON- family . when the house be renovate and 
      refurnish , all that -PRON- will need will be a wife to make -PRON- 
      complete . between -PRON- there be pretty clear sign that this 
      will not be want if the lady be willing , for -PRON- have seldom see a 
      man more infatuated with a woman than -PRON- be with -PRON- beautiful 
      neighbour , Miss Stapleton . and yet the course of true love do not 
      run quite as smoothly as one would under the circumstance expect . 
      to - day , for example , -PRON- surface be break by a very unexpected 
      ripple , which have cause -PRON- friend considerable perplexity and 
      annoyance . 

      after the conversation which -PRON- have quote about Barrymore , Sir Henry 
      put on -PRON- hat and prepare to go out . as a matter of course -PRON- do 
      the same . 

      " what , be -PRON- come , Watson ? " -PRON- ask , look at -PRON- in a curious 
      way . 

      " that depend on whether -PRON- be go on the moor , " say I. 

      " yes , -PRON- be . " 

      " well , -PRON- know what -PRON- instruction be . -PRON- be sorry to intrude , but 
      -PRON- hear how earnestly Holmes insist that -PRON- should not leave -PRON- , 
      and especially that -PRON- should not go alone upon the moor . " 

      Sir Henry put -PRON- hand upon -PRON- shoulder with a pleasant smile . 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , " say -PRON- , " Holmes , with all -PRON- wisdom , do not 
      foresee some thing which have happen since -PRON- have be on the 
      moor . -PRON- understand -PRON- ? -PRON- be sure that -PRON- be the last man in the 
      world who would wish to be a spoil - sport . -PRON- must go out alone . " 

      -PRON- put -PRON- in a most awkward position . -PRON- be at a loss what to say or 
      what to do , and before -PRON- have make up -PRON- mind -PRON- pick up -PRON- cane 
      and be go . 

      but when -PRON- come to think the matter over -PRON- conscience reproach -PRON- 
      bitterly for have on any pretext allow -PRON- to go out of -PRON- sight . 
      -PRON- imagine what -PRON- feeling would be if -PRON- have to return to -PRON- and to 
      confess that some misfortune have occur through -PRON- disregard for 
      -PRON- instruction . -PRON- assure -PRON- -PRON- cheek flush at the very 
      think . -PRON- may not even now be too late to overtake -PRON- , so -PRON- set 
      off at once in the direction of Merripit House . 

      -PRON- hurry along the road at the top of -PRON- speed without see 
      anything of Sir Henry , until -PRON- come to the point where the moor path 
      branch off . there , fear that perhaps -PRON- have come in the wrong 
      direction after all , -PRON- mount a hill from which -PRON- could command a 
      view -- the same hill which be cut into the dark quarry . thence -PRON- see 
      -PRON- at once . -PRON- be on the moor path , about a quarter of a mile off , 
      and a lady be by -PRON- side who could only be Miss Stapleton . -PRON- be 
      clear that there be already an understanding between -PRON- and that 
      -PRON- have meet by appointment . -PRON- be walk slowly along in deep 
      conversation , and -PRON- see -PRON- make quick little movement of -PRON- 
      hand as if -PRON- be very earnest in what -PRON- be say , while -PRON- 
      listen intently , and once or twice shake -PRON- head in strong 
      dissent . -PRON- stand among the rock watch -PRON- , very much puzzle as 
      to what -PRON- should do next . to follow -PRON- and break into -PRON- 
      intimate conversation seem to be an outrage , and yet -PRON- clear duty 
      be never for an instant to let -PRON- out of -PRON- sight . to act the spy 
      upon a friend be a hateful task . still , -PRON- could see no well course 
      than to observe -PRON- from the hill , and to clear -PRON- conscience by 
      confess to -PRON- afterwards what -PRON- have do . -PRON- be true that if any 
      sudden danger have threaten -PRON- -PRON- be too far away to be of use , and 
      yet -PRON- be sure that -PRON- will agree with -PRON- that the position be very 
      difficult , and that there be nothing more which -PRON- could do . 

      -PRON- friend , Sir Henry , and the lady have halt on the path and be 
      stand deeply absorb in -PRON- conversation , when -PRON- be suddenly 
      aware that -PRON- be not the only witness of -PRON- interview . a wisp of 
      green float in the air catch -PRON- eye , and another glance show -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be carry on a stick by a man who be move among the 
      broken ground . -PRON- be Stapleton with -PRON- butterfly - net . -PRON- be very 
      much closer to the pair than -PRON- be , and -PRON- appear to be move in 
      -PRON- direction . at this instant Sir Henry suddenly draw Miss 
      Stapleton to -PRON- side . -PRON- arm be round -PRON- , but -PRON- seem to -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be strain away from -PRON- with -PRON- face avert . -PRON- 
      stoop -PRON- head to -PRON- , and -PRON- raise one hand as if in protest . 
      next moment -PRON- see -PRON- spring apart and turn hurriedly round . 
      Stapleton be the cause of the interruption . -PRON- be run wildly 
      towards -PRON- , -PRON- absurd net dangle behind -PRON- . -PRON- gesticulate and 
      almost dance with excitement in front of the lover . what the scene 
      mean -PRON- could not imagine , but -PRON- seem to -PRON- that Stapleton be 
      abuse Sir Henry , who offer explanation , which become more angry 
      as the other refuse to accept -PRON- . the lady stand by in haughty 
      silence . finally Stapleton turn upon -PRON- heel and beckon in a 
      peremptory way to -PRON- sister , who , after an irresolute glance at Sir 
      Henry , walk off by the side of -PRON- brother . the naturalist 's angry 
      gesture show that the lady be include in -PRON- displeasure . the 
      baronet stand for a minute look after -PRON- , and then -PRON- walk 
      slowly back the way that -PRON- have come , -PRON- head hang , the very 
      picture of dejection . 

      what all this mean -PRON- could not imagine , but -PRON- be deeply ashamed to 
      have witness so intimate a scene without -PRON- friend 's knowledge . -PRON- 
      run down the hill therefore and meet the baronet at the bottom . -PRON- 
      face be flush with anger and -PRON- brow be wrinkle , like one who 
      be at -PRON- wit 's end what to do . 

      " Halloa , Watson ! where have -PRON- drop from ? " say -PRON- . " -PRON- do not 
      mean to say that -PRON- come after -PRON- in spite of all ? " 

      -PRON- explain everything to -PRON- : how -PRON- have find -PRON- impossible to 
      remain behind , how -PRON- have follow -PRON- , and how -PRON- have witness all 
      that have occur . for an instant -PRON- eye blaze at -PRON- , but -PRON- 
      frankness disarm -PRON- anger , and -PRON- break at last into a rather 
      rueful laugh . 

      " -PRON- would have think the middle of that prairie a fairly safe 
      place for a man to be private , " say -PRON- , " but , by thunder , the whole 
      country - side seem to have be out to see -PRON- do -PRON- wooing -- and a 
      mighty poor woo at that ! where have -PRON- engage a seat ? " 

      " -PRON- be on that hill . " 

      " quite in the back row , eh ? but -PRON- brother be well up to the front . 
      do -PRON- see -PRON- come out on -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- do . " 

      " do -PRON- ever strike -PRON- as be crazy -- this brother of -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- can not say that -PRON- ever do . " 

      " -PRON- dare say not . -PRON- always think -PRON- sane enough until to - day , but 
      -PRON- can take -PRON- from -PRON- that either -PRON- or -PRON- ought to be in a 
      strait - jacket . what be the matter with -PRON- , anyhow ? -PRON- have live near 
      -PRON- for some week , Watson . tell -PRON- straight , now ! be there anything 
      that would prevent -PRON- from make a good husband to a woman that -PRON- 
      love ? " 

      " -PRON- should say not . " 

      " -PRON- can not object to -PRON- worldly position , so -PRON- must be -PRON- that -PRON- 
      have this down on . what have -PRON- against -PRON- ? -PRON- never hurt man or woman 
      in -PRON- life that -PRON- know of . and yet -PRON- would not so much as let -PRON- 
      touch the tip of -PRON- finger . " 

      " do -PRON- say so ? " 

      " that , and a deal more . -PRON- tell -PRON- , Watson , -PRON- have only know -PRON- these 
      few week , but from the first -PRON- just feel that -PRON- be make for -PRON- , 
      and -PRON- , too -- -PRON- be happy when -PRON- be with -PRON- , and that -PRON- will 
      swear . there be a light in a woman 's eye that speak louder than 
      word . but -PRON- have never let -PRON- get together , and -PRON- be only to - day 
      for the first time that -PRON- see a chance of have a few word with -PRON- 
      alone . -PRON- be glad to meet -PRON- , but when -PRON- do -PRON- be not love that 
      -PRON- would talk about , and -PRON- would not have let -PRON- talk about -PRON- 
      either if -PRON- could have stop -PRON- . -PRON- keep come back to -PRON- that 
      this be a place of danger , and that -PRON- would never be happy until -PRON- 
      have leave -PRON- . -PRON- tell -PRON- that since -PRON- have see -PRON- -PRON- be in no hurry 
      to leave -PRON- , and that if -PRON- really want -PRON- to go , the only way to 
      work -PRON- be for -PRON- to arrange to go with -PRON- . with that -PRON- offer in 
      as many word to marry -PRON- , but before -PRON- could answer , down come 
      this brother of -PRON- , run at -PRON- with a face on -PRON- like a madman . 
      -PRON- be just white with rage , and those light eye of -PRON- be blaze 
      with fury . what be -PRON- do with the lady ? how dare -PRON- offer -PRON- 
      attention which be distasteful to -PRON- ? do -PRON- think that because -PRON- 
      be a baronet -PRON- could do what -PRON- like ? if -PRON- have not be -PRON- brother 
      -PRON- should have know better how to answer -PRON- . as -PRON- be -PRON- tell -PRON- 
      that -PRON- feeling towards -PRON- sister be such as -PRON- be not ashamed 
      of , and that -PRON- hope that -PRON- may honour -PRON- by become -PRON- wife . 
      that seem to make the matter no better , so then -PRON- lose -PRON- temper 
      too , and -PRON- answer -PRON- rather more hotly than -PRON- should perhaps , 
      consider that -PRON- be stand by . so -PRON- end by -PRON- go off 
      with -PRON- , as -PRON- see , and here be -PRON- as badly puzzle a man as any in 
      this county . just tell -PRON- what -PRON- all mean , Watson , and -PRON- will owe -PRON- 
      more than ever -PRON- can hope to pay . " 

      -PRON- try one or two explanation , but , indeed , -PRON- be completely 
      puzzle -PRON- . -PRON- friend 's title , -PRON- fortune , -PRON- age , -PRON- 
      character , and -PRON- appearance be all in -PRON- favour , and -PRON- know 
      nothing against -PRON- unless -PRON- be this dark fate which run in -PRON- 
      family . that -PRON- advance should be reject so brusquely without any 
      reference to the lady 's own wish , and that the lady should accept 
      the situation without protest , be very amazing . however , -PRON- 
      conjecture be set at rest by a visit from Stapleton -PRON- that 
      very afternoon . -PRON- have come to offer apology for -PRON- rudeness of 
      the morning , and after a long private interview with Sir Henry in -PRON- 
      study , the upshot of -PRON- conversation be that the breach be quite 
      heal , and that -PRON- be to dine at Merripit House next Friday as a 
      sign of -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- do not say now that -PRON- be not a crazy man , " say Sir Henry ; " -PRON- can not 
      forget the look in -PRON- eye when -PRON- run at -PRON- this morning , but -PRON- 
      must allow that no man could make a more handsome apology than -PRON- have 
      do . " 

      " do -PRON- give any explanation of -PRON- conduct ? " 

      " -PRON- sister be everything in -PRON- life , -PRON- say . that be natural 
      enough , and -PRON- be glad that -PRON- should understand -PRON- value . -PRON- have 
      always be together , and accord to -PRON- account -PRON- have be a very 
      lonely man with only -PRON- as a companion , so that the thought of 
      lose -PRON- be really terrible to -PRON- . -PRON- have not understand , -PRON- 
      say , that -PRON- be become attach to -PRON- , but when -PRON- see with -PRON- 
      own eye that -PRON- be really so , and that -PRON- may be take away from 
      -PRON- , -PRON- give -PRON- such a shock that for a time -PRON- be not responsible 
      for what -PRON- say or do . -PRON- be very sorry for all that have pass , 
      and -PRON- recognize how foolish and how selfish -PRON- be that -PRON- should 
      imagine that -PRON- could hold a beautiful woman like -PRON- sister to 
      -PRON- for -PRON- whole life . if -PRON- have to leave -PRON- -PRON- have rather -PRON- 
      be to a neighbour like -PRON- than to anyone else . but in any case 
      -PRON- be a blow to -PRON- , and -PRON- would take -PRON- some time before -PRON- could 
      prepare -PRON- to meet -PRON- . -PRON- would withdraw all opposition upon -PRON- 
      part if -PRON- would promise for three month to let the matter rest and 
      to be content with cultivate the lady 's friendship during that time 
      without claim -PRON- love . this -PRON- promise , and so the matter rest . " 

      so there be one of -PRON- small mystery clear up . -PRON- be something to 
      have touch bottom anywhere in this bog in which -PRON- be flounder . 
      -PRON- know now why Stapleton look with disfavour upon -PRON- sister 's 
      suitor -- even when that suitor be so eligible a one as Sir Henry . and 
      now -PRON- pass on to another thread which -PRON- have extricate out of the 
      tangle skein , the mystery of the sobs in the night , of the 
      tear - stain face of Mrs. Barrymore , of the secret journey of the 
      butler to the western lattice window . congratulate -PRON- , -PRON- dear 
      Holmes , and tell -PRON- that -PRON- have not disappoint -PRON- as an 
      agent -- that -PRON- do not regret the confidence which -PRON- show in -PRON- 
      when -PRON- send -PRON- down . all these thing have by one night 's work be 
      thoroughly clear . 

      -PRON- have say " by one night 's work , " but , in truth , -PRON- be by two 
      night ' work , for on the first -PRON- draw entirely blank . -PRON- sit up with 
      Sir Henry in -PRON- room until nearly three o'clock in the morning , but 
      no sound of any sort do -PRON- hear except the chime clock upon the 
      stair . -PRON- be a most melancholy vigil , and end by each of -PRON- 
      fall asleep in -PRON- chair . fortunately -PRON- be not discourage , 
      and -PRON- determine to try again . the next night -PRON- lower the lamp , 
      and sit smoking cigarette without make the least sound . -PRON- be 
      incredible how slowly the hour crawl by , and yet -PRON- be help 
      through -PRON- by the same sort of patient interest which the hunter must 
      feel as -PRON- watch the trap into which -PRON- hope the game may wander . 
      one strike , and two , and -PRON- have almost for the second time give -PRON- 
      up in despair , when in an instant -PRON- both sit bolt upright in -PRON- 
      chair , with all -PRON- weary sense keenly on the alert once more . -PRON- 
      have hear the creak of a step in the passage . 

      very stealthily -PRON- hear -PRON- pass along until -PRON- die away in the 
      distance . then the baronet gently open -PRON- door and -PRON- set out in 
      pursuit . already -PRON- man have go round the gallery , and the corridor 
      be all in darkness . softly -PRON- steal along until -PRON- have come into the 
      other wing . -PRON- be just in time to catch a glimpse of the tall , 
      black - bearded figure , -PRON- shoulder round , as -PRON- tip - toe down the 
      passage . then -PRON- pass through the same door as before , and the 
      light of the candle frame -PRON- in the darkness and shoot one single 
      yellow beam across the gloom of the corridor . -PRON- shuffle cautiously 
      towards -PRON- , try every plank before -PRON- dare to put -PRON- whole 
      weight upon -PRON- . -PRON- have take the precaution of leave -PRON- boot 
      behind -PRON- , but , even so , the old board snap and creak beneath 
      -PRON- tread . sometimes -PRON- seem impossible that -PRON- should fail to hear 
      -PRON- approach . however , the man be fortunately rather deaf , and -PRON- be 
      entirely preoccupy in that which -PRON- be do . when at last -PRON- 
      reach the door and peep through -PRON- find -PRON- crouch at the 
      window , candle in hand , -PRON- white , intent face press against the 
      pane , exactly as -PRON- have see -PRON- two night before . 

      -PRON- have arrange no plan of campaign , but the baronet be a man to whom 
      the most direct way be always the most natural . -PRON- walk into the 
      room , and as -PRON- do so Barrymore spring up from the window with a 
      sharp hiss of -PRON- breath and stand , livid and tremble , before -PRON- . 
      -PRON- dark eye , glare out of the white mask of -PRON- face , be full 
      of horror and astonishment as -PRON- gaze from Sir Henry to -PRON- . 

      " what be -PRON- do here , Barrymore ? " 

      " nothing , sir . " -PRON- agitation be so great that -PRON- could hardly 
      speak , and the shadow spring up and down from the shaking of -PRON- 
      candle . " -PRON- be the window , sir . -PRON- go round at night to see that -PRON- 
      be fasten . " 

      " on the second floor ? " 

      " yes , sir , all the window . " 

      " look here , Barrymore , " say Sir Henry , sternly ; " -PRON- have make up -PRON- 
      mind to have the truth out of -PRON- , so -PRON- will save -PRON- trouble to 
      tell -PRON- sooner rather than later . come , now ! no lie ! what be -PRON- 
      do at that window ? " 

      the fellow look at -PRON- in a helpless way , and -PRON- wring -PRON- hand 
      together like one who be in the last extremity of doubt and misery . 

      " -PRON- be do no harm , sir . -PRON- be hold a candle to the window . " 

      " and why be -PRON- hold a candle to the window ? " 

      " do not ask -PRON- , Sir Henry -- don't ask -PRON- ! -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- word , sir , that 
      -PRON- be not -PRON- secret , and that -PRON- can not tell -PRON- . if -PRON- concern no 
      one but -PRON- -PRON- would not try to keep -PRON- from -PRON- . " 

      a sudden idea occur to -PRON- , and -PRON- take the candle from the 
      tremble hand of the butler . 

      " -PRON- must have be hold -PRON- as a signal , " say I. " let -PRON- see if 
      there be any answer . " -PRON- hold -PRON- as -PRON- have do , and stare out into 
      the darkness of the night . vaguely -PRON- could discern the black bank of 
      the tree and the light expanse of the moor , for the moon be 
      behind the cloud . and then -PRON- give a cry of exultation , for a tiny 
      pin - point of yellow light have suddenly transfix the dark veil , and 
      glow steadily in the centre of the black square frame by the 
      window . 

      " there -PRON- be ! " -PRON- cry . 

      " no , no , sir , -PRON- be nothing -- nothing at all ! " the butler break in ; " -PRON- 
      assure -PRON- , sir-- " 

      " move -PRON- light across the window , Watson ! " cry the baronet . " see , 
      the other move also ! now , -PRON- rascal , do -PRON- deny that -PRON- be a 
      signal ? come , speak up ! who be -PRON- confederate out yonder , and what 
      be this conspiracy that be go on ? " 

      the man 's face become openly defiant . 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- business , and not yours . -PRON- will not tell . " 

      " then -PRON- leave -PRON- employment right away . " 

      " very good , sir . if -PRON- must -PRON- must . " 

      " and -PRON- go in disgrace . by thunder , -PRON- may well be ashamed of 
      -PRON- . -PRON- family have live with -PRON- for over a hundred year 
      under this roof , and here -PRON- find -PRON- deep in some dark plot against 
      -PRON- . " 

      " no , no , sir ; no , not against -PRON- ! " -PRON- be a woman 's voice , and Mrs. 
      Barrymore , paler and more horror - strike than -PRON- husband , be 
      stand at the door . -PRON- bulky figure in a shawl and skirt may 
      have be comic be -PRON- not for the intensity of feel upon -PRON- 
      face . 

      " -PRON- have to go , Eliza . this be the end of -PRON- . -PRON- can pack -PRON- 
      thing , " say the butler . 

      " oh , John , John , have -PRON- bring -PRON- to this ? -PRON- be -PRON- doing , Sir 
      Henry -- all mine . -PRON- have do nothing except for -PRON- sake and because -PRON- 
      ask -PRON- . " 

      " speak out , then ! what do -PRON- mean ? " 

      " -PRON- unhappy brother be starve on the moor . -PRON- can not let -PRON- perish 
      at -PRON- very gate . the light be a signal to -PRON- that food be ready 
      for -PRON- , and -PRON- light out yonder be to show the spot to which to 
      bring -PRON- . " 

      " then -PRON- brother is-- " 

      " the escape convict , sir -- Selden , the criminal . " 

      " that be the truth , sir , " say Barrymore . " -PRON- say that -PRON- be not -PRON- 
      secret and that -PRON- could not tell -PRON- to -PRON- . but now -PRON- have hear 
      -PRON- , and -PRON- will see that if there be a plot -PRON- be not against 
      -PRON- . " 

      this , then , be the explanation of the stealthy expedition at night 
      and the light at the window . Sir Henry and -PRON- both stare at the woman 
      in amazement . be -PRON- possible that this stolidly respectable person 
      be of the same blood as one of the most notorious criminal in the 
      country ? 

      " yes , sir , -PRON- name be Selden , and -PRON- be -PRON- young brother . -PRON- 
      humour -PRON- too much when -PRON- be a lad , and give -PRON- -PRON- own way in 
      everything until -PRON- come to think that the world be make for -PRON- 
      pleasure , and that -PRON- could do what -PRON- like in -PRON- . then as -PRON- grow 
      old -PRON- meet wicked companion , and the devil enter into -PRON- until 
      -PRON- break -PRON- mother 's heart and drag -PRON- name in the dirt . from 
      crime to crime -PRON- sink lower and lower , until -PRON- be only the mercy of 
      God which have snatch -PRON- from the scaffold ; but to -PRON- , sir , -PRON- be 
      always the little curly - head boy that -PRON- have nurse and play with , 
      as an eld sister would . that be why -PRON- break prison , sir . -PRON- know 
      that -PRON- be here and that -PRON- could not refuse to help -PRON- . when -PRON- 
      drag -PRON- here one night , weary and starving , with the warder 
      hard at -PRON- heel , what could -PRON- do ? -PRON- take -PRON- in and feed -PRON- and 
      care for -PRON- . then -PRON- return , sir , and -PRON- brother think -PRON- 
      would be safe on the moor than anywhere else until the hue and cry 
      be over , so -PRON- lie in hide there . but every second night -PRON- make 
      sure if -PRON- be still there by put a light in the window , and if 
      there be an answer -PRON- husband take out some bread and meat to -PRON- . 
      every day -PRON- hope that -PRON- be go , but as long as -PRON- be there -PRON- 
      could not desert -PRON- . that be the whole truth , as -PRON- be an honest 
      christian woman , and -PRON- will see that if there be blame in the 
      matter -PRON- do not lie with -PRON- husband , but with -PRON- , for whose sake 
      -PRON- have do all that -PRON- have . " 

      the woman 's word come with an intense earnestness which carry 
      conviction with -PRON- . 

      " be this true , Barrymore ? " 

      " yes , Sir Henry . every word of -PRON- . " 

      " well , -PRON- can not blame -PRON- for stand by -PRON- own wife . forget what 
      -PRON- have say . go to -PRON- room , -PRON- two , and -PRON- shall talk further 
      about this matter in the morning . " 

      when -PRON- be go -PRON- look out of the window again . Sir Henry have 
      fling -PRON- open , and the cold night wind beat in upon -PRON- face . far 
      away in the black distance there still glow that one tiny point of 
      yellow light . 

      " -PRON- wonder -PRON- dare , " say Sir Henry . 

      " -PRON- may be so place as to be only visible from here . " 

      " very likely . how far do -PRON- think -PRON- be ? " 

      " out by the Cleft Tor , -PRON- think . " 

      " not more than a mile or two off . " 

      " hardly that . " 

      " well , -PRON- can not be far if Barrymore have to carry out the food to -PRON- . 
      and -PRON- be wait , this villain , beside that candle . by thunder , 
      Watson , -PRON- be go out to take that man ! " 

      the same thought have cross -PRON- own mind . -PRON- be not as if the 
      Barrymores have take -PRON- into -PRON- confidence . -PRON- secret have be 
      force from -PRON- . the man be a danger to the community , an 
      unmitigated scoundrel for whom there be neither pity nor excuse . -PRON- 
      be only do -PRON- duty in take this chance of put -PRON- back 
      where -PRON- could do no harm . with -PRON- brutal and violent nature , other 
      would have to pay the price if -PRON- hold -PRON- hand . any night , for 
      example , -PRON- neighbour the Stapletons may be attack by -PRON- , and 
      -PRON- may have be the thought of this which make Sir Henry so keen 
      upon the adventure . 

      " -PRON- will come , " say I. 

      " then get -PRON- revolver and put on -PRON- boot . the sooner -PRON- start 
      the well , as the fellow may put out -PRON- light and be off . " 

      in five minute -PRON- be outside the door , start upon -PRON- 
      expedition . -PRON- hurry through the dark shrubbery , amid the dull 
      moan of the autumn wind and the rustle of the fall leave . the 
      night air be heavy with the smell of damp and decay . now and again 
      the moon peep out for an instant , but cloud be drive over the 
      face of the sky , and just as -PRON- come out on the moor a thin rain 
      begin to fall . the light still burn steadily in front . 

      " be -PRON- armed ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- have a hunting - crop . " 

      " -PRON- must close in on -PRON- rapidly , for -PRON- be say to be a desperate 
      fellow . -PRON- shall take -PRON- by surprise and have -PRON- at -PRON- mercy 
      before -PRON- can resist . " 

      " -PRON- say , Watson , " say the baronet , " what would Holmes say to this ? 
      how about that hour of darkness in which the power of evil be 
      exalt ? " 

      as if in answer to -PRON- word there rise suddenly out of the vast 
      gloom of the moor that strange cry which -PRON- have already hear upon the 
      border of the great Grimpen Mire . -PRON- come with the wind through the 
      silence of the night , a long , deep mutter , then a rise howl , and 
      then the sad moan in which -PRON- die away . again and again -PRON- sound , 
      the whole air throb with -PRON- , strident , wild , and menacing . the 
      baronet catch -PRON- sleeve and -PRON- face glimmer white through the 
      darkness . 

      " -PRON- God , what be that , Watson ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know . -PRON- be a sound -PRON- have on the moor . -PRON- hear -PRON- once 
      before . " 

      -PRON- die away , and an absolute silence close in upon -PRON- . -PRON- stand 
      strain -PRON- ear , but nothing come . 

      " Watson , " say the baronet , " -PRON- be the cry of a hound . " 

      -PRON- blood run cold in -PRON- vein , for there be a break in -PRON- voice 
      which tell of the sudden horror which have seize -PRON- . 

      " what do -PRON- call this sound ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " who ? " 

      " the folk on the country - side . " 

      " oh , -PRON- be ignorant people . why should -PRON- mind what -PRON- call 
      -PRON- ? " 

      " tell -PRON- , Watson . what do -PRON- say of -PRON- ? " 

      -PRON- hesitate but could not escape the question . 

      " -PRON- say -PRON- be the cry of the Hound of the Baskervilles . " 

      -PRON- groan and be silent for a few moment . 

      " a hound -PRON- be , " -PRON- say , at last , " but -PRON- seem to come from mile 
      away , over yonder , -PRON- think . " 

      " -PRON- be hard to say whence -PRON- come . " 

      " -PRON- rise and fall with the wind . be not that the direction of the 
      great Grimpen Mire ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- be . " 

      " well , -PRON- be up there . come now , Watson , do not -PRON- think -PRON- 
      that -PRON- be the cry of a hound ? -PRON- be not a child . -PRON- need not fear 
      to speak the truth . " 

      " Stapleton be with -PRON- when -PRON- hear -PRON- last . -PRON- say that -PRON- may be 
      the calling of a strange bird . " 

      " no , no , -PRON- be a hound . -PRON- God , can there be some truth in all these 
      story ? be -PRON- possible that -PRON- be really in danger from so dark a 
      cause ? -PRON- do not believe -PRON- , do -PRON- , Watson ? " 

      " no , no . " 

      " and yet -PRON- be one thing to laugh about -PRON- in London , and -PRON- be 
      another to stand out here in the darkness of the moor and to hear 
      such a cry as that . and -PRON- uncle ! there be the footprint of the 
      hound beside -PRON- as -PRON- lie . -PRON- all fit together . -PRON- do not think that 
      -PRON- be a coward , Watson , but that sound seem to freeze -PRON- very blood . 
      feel -PRON- hand ! " 

      -PRON- be as cold as a block of marble . 

      " -PRON- will be all right to - morrow . " 

      " -PRON- do not think -PRON- will get that cry out of -PRON- head . what do -PRON- advise 
      that -PRON- do now ? " 

      " Shall -PRON- turn back ? " 

      " no , by thunder ; -PRON- have come out to get -PRON- man , and -PRON- will do -PRON- . 
      -PRON- after the convict , and a hell - hound , as likely as not , after -PRON- . 
      come on ! -PRON- will see -PRON- through if all the fiend of the pit be loose 
      upon the moor . " 

      -PRON- stumble slowly along in the darkness , with the black loom of the 
      craggy hill around -PRON- , and the yellow speck of light burn 
      steadily in front . there be nothing so deceptive as the distance of a 
      light upon a pitch - dark night , and sometimes the glimmer seem to be 
      far away upon the horizon and sometimes -PRON- may have be within a 
      few yard of -PRON- . but at last -PRON- could see whence -PRON- come , and then -PRON- 
      know that -PRON- be indeed very close . a guttering candle be stick in 
      a crevice of the rock which flank -PRON- on each side so as to keep 
      the wind from -PRON- and also to prevent -PRON- from be visible , save in 
      the direction of Baskerville Hall . a boulder of granite conceal -PRON- 
      approach , and crouch behind -PRON- -PRON- gaze over -PRON- at the signal 
      light . -PRON- be strange to see this single candle burn there in the 
      middle of the moor , with no sign of life near -PRON- -- just the one 
      straight yellow flame and the gleam of the rock on each side of -PRON- . 

      " what shall -PRON- do now ? " whisper Sir Henry . 

      " wait here . -PRON- must be near -PRON- light . let -PRON- see if -PRON- can get a 
      glimpse of -PRON- . " 

      the word be hardly out of -PRON- mouth when -PRON- both see -PRON- . over the 
      rock , in the crevice of which the candle burn , there be thrust 
      out an evil yellow face , a terrible animal face , all seam and 
      score with vile passion . foul with mire , with a bristling beard , 
      and hang with matted hair , -PRON- may well have belong to one of 
      those old savage who dwelt in the burrow on the hillside . the 
      light beneath -PRON- be reflect in -PRON- small , cunning eye which 
      peer fiercely to right and leave through the darkness , like a crafty 
      and savage animal who have hear the step of the hunter . 

      something have evidently arouse -PRON- suspicion . -PRON- may have be that 
      Barrymore have some private signal which -PRON- have neglect to give , or 
      the fellow may have have some other reason for think that all be 
      not well , but -PRON- could read -PRON- fear upon -PRON- wicked face . any 
      instant -PRON- may dash out the light and vanish in the darkness . -PRON- 
      spring forward therefore , and Sir Henry do the same . at the same 
      moment the convict scream out a curse at -PRON- and hurl a rock which 
      splinter up against the boulder which have shelter -PRON- . -PRON- catch 
      one glimpse of -PRON- short , squat , strongly - build figure as -PRON- spring 
      to -PRON- foot and turn to run . at the same moment by a lucky chance 
      the moon break through the cloud . -PRON- rush over the brow of the 
      hill , and there be -PRON- man run with great speed down the other 
      side , spring over the stone in -PRON- way with the activity of a 
      mountain goat . a lucky long shot of -PRON- revolver may have cripple 
      -PRON- , but -PRON- have bring -PRON- only to defend -PRON- if attack , and not 
      to shoot an unarmed man who be run away . 

      -PRON- be both swift runner and in fairly good training , but -PRON- soon 
      find that -PRON- have no chance of overtake -PRON- . -PRON- see -PRON- for a long 
      time in the moonlight until -PRON- be only a small speck move swiftly 
      among the boulder upon the side of a distant hill . -PRON- run and run 
      until -PRON- be completely blow , but the space between -PRON- grow ever 
      wide . finally -PRON- stop and sit pant on two rock , while -PRON- 
      watch -PRON- disappear in the distance . 

      and -PRON- be at this moment that there occur a most strange and 
      unexpected thing . -PRON- have rise from -PRON- rock and be turn to go 
      home , have abandon the hopeless chase . the moon be low upon the 
      right , and the jagged pinnacle of a granite tor stand up against the 
      low curve of -PRON- silver disc . there , outline as black as an ebony 
      statue on that shine back - ground , -PRON- see the figure of a man upon 
      the tor . do not think that -PRON- be a delusion , Holmes . -PRON- assure -PRON- 
      that -PRON- have never in -PRON- life see anything more clearly . as far as -PRON- 
      could judge , the figure be that of a tall , thin man . -PRON- stand with 
      -PRON- leg a little separated , -PRON- arm fold , -PRON- head bow , as if 
      -PRON- be brood over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite 
      which lie before -PRON- . -PRON- may have be the very spirit of that 
      terrible place . -PRON- be not the convict . this man be far from the 
      place where the latter have disappear . besides , -PRON- be a much tall 
      man . with a cry of surprise -PRON- point -PRON- out to the baronet , but in 
      the instant during which -PRON- have turn to grasp -PRON- arm the man be 
      go . there be the sharp pinnacle of granite still cut the low 
      edge of the moon , but -PRON- peak bear no trace of that silent and 
      motionless figure . 

      -PRON- wish to go in that direction and to search the tor , but -PRON- be 
      some distance away . the baronet 's nerve be still quiver from 
      that cry , which recall the dark story of -PRON- family , and -PRON- be not 
      in the mood for fresh adventure . -PRON- have not see this lonely man 
      upon the tor and could not feel the thrill which -PRON- strange presence 
      and -PRON- command attitude have give to -PRON- . " a warder , no doubt , " 
      say -PRON- . " the moor have be thick with -PRON- since this fellow 
      escape . " well , perhaps -PRON- explanation may be the right one , but -PRON- 
      should like to have some further proof of -PRON- . to - day -PRON- mean to 
      communicate to the Princetown people where -PRON- should look for -PRON- 
      miss man , but -PRON- be hard line that -PRON- have not actually have the 
      triumph of bring -PRON- back as -PRON- own prisoner . such be the 
      adventure of last night , and -PRON- must acknowledge , -PRON- dear Holmes , 
      that -PRON- have do -PRON- very well in the matter of a report . much of 
      what -PRON- tell -PRON- be no doubt quite irrelevant , but still -PRON- feel that 
      -PRON- be good that -PRON- should let -PRON- have all the fact and leave -PRON- to 
      select for -PRON- those which will be of most service to -PRON- in 
      help -PRON- to -PRON- conclusion . -PRON- be certainly make some 
      progress . so far as the Barrymores go -PRON- have find the motive of 
      -PRON- action , and that have clear up the situation very much . but 
      the moor with -PRON- mystery and -PRON- strange inhabitant remain as 
      inscrutable as ever . perhaps in -PRON- next -PRON- may be able to throw some 
      light upon this also . good of all would -PRON- be if -PRON- could come down 
      to -PRON- . in any case -PRON- will hear from -PRON- again in the course of the 
      next few day . 





           CHAPTER X 
           Extract from the Diary of Dr. Watson 


      so far -PRON- have be able to quote from the report which -PRON- have 
      forward during these early day to Sherlock Holmes . now , however , -PRON- 
      have arrive at a point in -PRON- narrative where -PRON- be compel to 
      abandon this method and to trust once more to -PRON- recollection , aid 
      by the diary which -PRON- keep at the time . a few extract from the latter 
      will carry -PRON- on to those scene which be indelibly fix in every 
      detail upon -PRON- memory . -PRON- proceed , then , from the morning which 
      follow -PRON- abortive chase of the convict and -PRON- other strange 
      experience upon the moor . 

      October 16th.--a dull and foggy day with a drizzle of rain . the house 
      be bank in with rolling cloud , which rise now and then to show the 
      dreary curve of the moor , with thin , silver vein upon the side of 
      the hill , and the distant boulder gleam where the light strike 
      upon -PRON- wet face . -PRON- be melancholy outside and in . the baronet be 
      in a black reaction after the excitement of the night . -PRON- be 
      conscious -PRON- of a weight at -PRON- heart and a feeling of impending 
      danger -- ever present danger , which be the more terrible because -PRON- be 
      unable to define -PRON- . 

      and have -PRON- not cause for such a feeling ? consider the long sequence 
      of incident which have all point to some sinister influence which 
      be at work around -PRON- . there be the death of the last occupant of the 
      Hall , fulfil so exactly the condition of the family legend , and 
      there be the repeat report from peasant of the appearance of a 
      strange creature upon the moor . twice -PRON- have with -PRON- own ear hear 
      the sound which resemble the distant baying of a hound . -PRON- be 
      incredible , impossible , that -PRON- should really be outside the ordinary 
      law of nature . a spectral hound which leave material footmark and 
      fill the air with -PRON- howling be surely not to be think of . 
      Stapleton may fall in with such a superstition , and Mortimer also ; 
      but if -PRON- have one quality upon earth -PRON- be common - sense , and nothing 
      will persuade -PRON- to believe in such a thing . to do so would be to 
      descend to the level of these poor peasant , who be not content with 
      a mere fiend dog but must needs describe -PRON- with hell - fire shooting 
      from -PRON- mouth and eye . Holmes would not listen to such fancy , and 
      -PRON- be -PRON- agent . but fact be fact , and -PRON- have twice hear this 
      cry upon the moor . suppose that there be really some huge hound 
      loose upon -PRON- ; that would go far to explain everything . but where 
      could such a hound lie conceal , where do -PRON- get -PRON- food , where 
      do -PRON- come from , how be -PRON- that no one see -PRON- by day ? -PRON- must be 
      confess that the natural explanation offer almost as many 
      difficulty as the other . and always , apart from the hound , there be 
      the fact of the human agency in London , the man in the cab , and the 
      letter which warn Sir Henry against the moor . this at least be 
      real , but -PRON- may have be the work of a protect friend as 
      easily as of an enemy . where be that friend or enemy now ? have -PRON- 
      remain in London , or have -PRON- follow -PRON- down here ? Could -PRON- -- could 
      -PRON- be the stranger whom -PRON- see upon the tor ? 

      -PRON- be true that -PRON- have have only the one glance at -PRON- , and yet there 
      be some thing to which -PRON- be ready to swear . -PRON- be no one whom -PRON- 
      have see down here , and -PRON- have now meet all the neighbour . the 
      figure be far tall than that of Stapleton , far thin than that 
      of Frankland . Barrymore -PRON- may possibly have be , but -PRON- have leave 
      -PRON- behind -PRON- , and -PRON- be certain that -PRON- could not have follow -PRON- . a 
      stranger then be still dog -PRON- , just as a stranger dog -PRON- in 
      London . -PRON- have never shake -PRON- off . if -PRON- could lay -PRON- hand upon 
      that man , then at last -PRON- may find -PRON- at the end of all -PRON- 
      difficulty . to this one purpose -PRON- must now devote all -PRON- energy . 

      -PRON- first impulse be to tell Sir Henry all -PRON- plan . -PRON- second and 
      wise one be to play -PRON- own game and speak as little as possible to 
      anyone . -PRON- be silent and distrait . -PRON- nerve have be strangely 
      shake by that sound upon the moor . -PRON- will say nothing to add to -PRON- 
      anxiety , but -PRON- will take -PRON- own step to attain -PRON- own end . 

      -PRON- have a small scene this morning after breakfast . Barrymore ask 
      leave to speak with Sir Henry , and -PRON- be closet in -PRON- study 
      some little time . sit in the billiard - room -PRON- more than once hear 
      the sound of voice raise , and -PRON- have a pretty good idea what the 
      point be which be under discussion . after a time the baronet open 
      -PRON- door and call for -PRON- . 

      " Barrymore consider that -PRON- have a grievance , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- think 
      that -PRON- be unfair on -PRON- part to hunt -PRON- brother - in - law down when 
      -PRON- , of -PRON- own free will , have tell -PRON- the secret . " 

      the butler be stand very pale but very collect before -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- may have speak too warmly , sir , " say -PRON- , " and if -PRON- have , -PRON- be 
      sure that -PRON- beg -PRON- pardon . at the same time , -PRON- be very much 
      surprised when -PRON- hear -PRON- two gentleman come back this morning and 
      learn that -PRON- have be chase Selden . the poor fellow have enough 
      to fight against without -PRON- put more upon -PRON- track . " 

      " if -PRON- have tell -PRON- of -PRON- own free will -PRON- would have be a 
      different thing , " say the baronet , " -PRON- only tell -PRON- , or rather -PRON- 
      wife only tell -PRON- , when -PRON- be force from -PRON- and -PRON- could not help 
      -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- do not think -PRON- would have take advantage of -PRON- , Sir 
      Henry -- indeed -PRON- do not . " 

      " the man be a public danger . there be lonely house scatter over 
      the moor , and -PRON- be a fellow who would stick at nothing . -PRON- only 
      want to get a glimpse of -PRON- face to see that . look at Mr. 
      Stapleton 's house , for example , with no one but -PRON- to defend -PRON- . 
      there be no safety for anyone until -PRON- be under lock and key . " 

      " -PRON- will break into no house , sir . -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- solemn word upon that . 
      but -PRON- will never trouble anyone in this country again . -PRON- assure -PRON- , 
      Sir Henry , that in a very few day the necessary arrangement will 
      have be make and -PRON- will be on -PRON- way to South America . for God 's 
      sake , sir , -PRON- beg of -PRON- not to let the police know that -PRON- be still 
      on the moor . -PRON- have give up the chase there , and -PRON- can lie quiet 
      until the ship be ready for -PRON- . -PRON- can not tell on -PRON- without 
      get -PRON- wife and -PRON- into trouble . -PRON- beg -PRON- , sir , to say nothing 
      to the police . " 

      " what do -PRON- say , Watson ? " 

      -PRON- shrug -PRON- shoulder . " if -PRON- be safely out of the country -PRON- 
      would relieve the tax - payer of a burden . " 

      " but how about the chance of -PRON- hold someone up before -PRON- go ? " 

      " -PRON- would not do anything so mad , sir . -PRON- have provide -PRON- with all 
      that -PRON- can want . to commit a crime would be to show where -PRON- be 
      hide . " 

      " that be true , " say Sir Henry . " well , barrymore-- " 

      " God bless -PRON- , sir , and thank -PRON- from -PRON- heart ! -PRON- would have 
      kill -PRON- poor wife have -PRON- be take again . " 

      " -PRON- guess -PRON- be aid and abet a felony , Watson ? but , after what 
      -PRON- have hear -PRON- do not feel as if -PRON- could give the man up , so there be 
      an end of -PRON- . all right , Barrymore , -PRON- can go . " 

      with a few broken word of gratitude the man turn , but -PRON- hesitate 
      and then come back . 

      " -PRON- have be so kind to -PRON- , sir , that -PRON- should like to do the good -PRON- 
      can for -PRON- in return . -PRON- know something , Sir Henry , and perhaps -PRON- 
      should have say -PRON- before , but -PRON- be long after the inquest that -PRON- 
      find -PRON- out . -PRON- have never breathe a word about -PRON- yet to mortal man . 
      -PRON- be about poor Sir Charles 's death . " 

      the baronet and -PRON- be both upon -PRON- foot . " do -PRON- know how -PRON- die ? " 

      " no , sir , -PRON- do not know that . " 

      " what then ? " 

      " -PRON- know why -PRON- be at the gate at that hour . -PRON- be to meet a woman . " 

      " to meet a woman ! -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " and the woman 's name ? " 

      " -PRON- can not give -PRON- the name , sir , but -PRON- can give -PRON- the initial . -PRON- 
      initial be L. L. " 

      " how do -PRON- know this , Barrymore ? " 

      " well , Sir Henry , -PRON- uncle have a letter that morning . -PRON- have 
      usually a great many letter , for -PRON- be a public man and well know 
      for -PRON- kind heart , so that everyone who be in trouble be glad to 
      turn to -PRON- . but that morning , as -PRON- chance , there be only this one 
      letter , so -PRON- take the more notice of -PRON- . -PRON- be from Coombe Tracey , 
      and -PRON- be address in a woman 's hand . " 

      " well ? " 

      " well , sir , -PRON- think no more of the matter , and never would have 
      do have -PRON- not be for -PRON- wife . only a few week ago -PRON- be 
      clean out Sir Charles 's study -- -PRON- have never be touch since -PRON- 
      death -- and -PRON- find the ashe of a burn letter in the back of the 
      grate . the great part of -PRON- be char to piece , but one little 
      slip , the end of a page , hang together , and the writing could still 
      be read , though -PRON- be gray on a black ground . -PRON- seem to -PRON- to be 
      a postscript at the end of the letter , and -PRON- say : ' please , please , 
      as -PRON- be a gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten 
      o'clock ' . beneath -PRON- be sign the initial L. L. " 

      " have -PRON- get that slip ? " 

      " no , sir , -PRON- crumble all to bit after -PRON- move -PRON- . " 

      " have Sir Charles receive any other letter in the same writing ? " 

      " well , sir , -PRON- take no particular notice of -PRON- letter . -PRON- should not 
      have notice this one , only -PRON- happen to come alone . " 

      " and -PRON- have no idea who L. L. be ? " 

      " no , sir . no more than -PRON- have . but -PRON- expect if -PRON- could lay -PRON- 
      hand upon that lady -PRON- should know more about Sir Charles 's death . " 

      " -PRON- can not understand , Barrymore , how -PRON- come to conceal this 
      important information . " 

      " well , sir , -PRON- be immediately after that -PRON- own trouble come to -PRON- . 
      and then again , sir , -PRON- be both of -PRON- very fond of Sir Charles , as 
      -PRON- well may be consider all that -PRON- have do for -PRON- . to rake 
      this up could not help -PRON- poor master , and -PRON- be well to go carefully 
      when there be a lady in the case . even the good of us-- " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- may injure -PRON- reputation ? " 

      " well , sir , -PRON- think no good could come of -PRON- . but now -PRON- have be 
      kind to -PRON- , and -PRON- feel as if -PRON- would be treat -PRON- unfairly not to 
      tell -PRON- all that -PRON- know about the matter . " 

      " very good , Barrymore ; -PRON- can go . " when the butler have leave -PRON- Sir 
      Henry turn to -PRON- . " well , Watson , what do -PRON- think of this new 
      light ? " 

      " -PRON- seem to leave the darkness rather blacker than before . " 

      " so -PRON- think . but if -PRON- can only trace L. L. -PRON- should clear up the 
      whole business . -PRON- have gain that much . -PRON- know that there be 
      someone who have the fact if -PRON- can only find -PRON- . what do -PRON- think 
      -PRON- should do ? " 

      " let Holmes know all about -PRON- at once . -PRON- will give -PRON- the clue for 
      which -PRON- have be seek . -PRON- be much mistaken if -PRON- do not bring 
      -PRON- down . " 

      -PRON- go at once to -PRON- room and draw up -PRON- report of the morning 's 
      conversation for Holmes . -PRON- be evident to -PRON- that -PRON- have be very 
      busy of late , for the note which -PRON- have from Baker Street be few 
      and short , with no comment upon the information which -PRON- have supply 
      and hardly any reference to -PRON- mission . no doubt -PRON- blackmail 
      case be absorb all -PRON- faculty . and yet this new factor must 
      surely arrest -PRON- attention and renew -PRON- interest . -PRON- wish that -PRON- 
      be here . 

      October 17th.--all day to - day the rain pour down , rustle on the 
      ivy and drip from the eave . -PRON- think of the convict out upon 
      the bleak , cold , shelterless moor . poor devil ! whatever -PRON- crime , 
      -PRON- have suffer something to atone for -PRON- . and then -PRON- think of 
      that other one -- the face in the cab , the figure against the moon . be 
      -PRON- also out in that deluge -- the unseen watcher , the man of darkness ? 
      in the evening -PRON- put on -PRON- waterproof and -PRON- walk far upon the 
      sodden moor , full of dark imagining , the rain beat upon -PRON- face 
      and the wind whistle about -PRON- ear . God help those who wander into 
      the great mire now , for even the firm upland be become a morass . 
      -PRON- find the black tor upon which -PRON- have see the solitary watcher , and 
      from -PRON- craggy summit -PRON- look out -PRON- across the melancholy 
      down . rain squall drift across -PRON- russet face , and the heavy , 
      slate - colour cloud hang low over the landscape , trail in gray 
      wreath down the side of the fantastic hill . in the distant hollow 
      on the left , half hide by the mist , the two thin tower of 
      Baskerville Hall rise above the tree . -PRON- be the only sign of 
      human life which -PRON- could see , save only those prehistoric hut which 
      lie thickly upon the slope of the hill . nowhere be there any trace 
      of that lonely man whom -PRON- have see on the same spot two night 
      before . 

      as -PRON- walk back -PRON- be overtake by Dr. Mortimer drive in -PRON- 
      dog - cart over a rough moorland track which lead from the outlying 
      farmhouse of Foulmire . -PRON- have be very attentive to -PRON- , and hardly a 
      day have pass that -PRON- have not call at the Hall to see how -PRON- be 
      get on . -PRON- insist upon -PRON- climbing into -PRON- dog - cart , and -PRON- 
      give -PRON- a lift homeward . -PRON- find -PRON- much trouble over the 
      disappearance of -PRON- little spaniel . -PRON- have wander on to the moor 
      and have never come back . -PRON- give -PRON- such consolation as -PRON- may , but 
      -PRON- think of the pony on the Grimpen Mire , and -PRON- do not fancy that -PRON- 
      will see -PRON- little dog again . 

      " by the way , Mortimer , " say -PRON- as -PRON- jolt along the rough road , " -PRON- 
      suppose there be few people live within drive distance of this 
      whom -PRON- do not know ? " 

      " hardly any , -PRON- think . " 

      " Can -PRON- , then , tell -PRON- the name of any woman whose initial be L. 
      L. ? " 

      -PRON- think for a few minute . 

      " no , " say -PRON- . " there be a few gipsy and labour folk for whom -PRON- 
      can not answer , but among the farmer or gentry there be no one whose 
      initial be those . wait a bit though , " -PRON- add after a pause . 
      " there be Laura Lyons -- -PRON- initial be L. L.--but -PRON- live in 
      Coombe Tracey . " 

      " who be -PRON- ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " -PRON- be Frankland 's daughter . " 

      " what ! Old Frankland the crank ? " 

      " exactly . -PRON- marry an artist name Lyons , who come sketch on 
      the moor . -PRON- prove to be a blackguard and desert -PRON- . the fault 
      from what -PRON- hear may not have be entirely on one side . -PRON- father 
      refuse to have anything to do with -PRON- because -PRON- have marry 
      without -PRON- consent , and perhaps for one or two other reason as 
      well . so , between the old sinner and the young one the girl have have a 
      pretty bad time . " 

      " how do -PRON- live ? " 

      " -PRON- fancy old Frankland allow -PRON- a pittance , but -PRON- can not be more , 
      for -PRON- own affair be considerably involve . whatever -PRON- may have 
      deserve one could not allow -PRON- to go hopelessly to the bad . -PRON- 
      story get about , and several of the people here do something to 
      enable -PRON- to earn an honest living . Stapleton do for one , and Sir 
      Charles for another . -PRON- give a trifle -PRON- . -PRON- be to set -PRON- up in 
      a typewriting business . " 

      -PRON- want to know the object of -PRON- inquiry , but -PRON- manage to 
      satisfy -PRON- curiosity without tell -PRON- too much , for there be no 
      reason why -PRON- should take anyone into -PRON- confidence . to - morrow 
      morning -PRON- shall find -PRON- way to Coombe Tracey , and if -PRON- can see this 
      Mrs. Laura Lyons , of equivocal reputation , a long step will have be 
      make towards clear one incident in this chain of mystery . -PRON- be 
      certainly develop the wisdom of the serpent , for when Mortimer 
      press -PRON- question to an inconvenient extent -PRON- ask -PRON- casually 
      to what type Frankland 's skull belong , and so hear nothing but 
      craniology for the rest of -PRON- drive . -PRON- have not live for year with 
      Sherlock Holmes for nothing . 

      -PRON- have only one other incident to record upon this tempestuous and 
      melancholy day . this be -PRON- conversation with Barrymore just now , 
      which give -PRON- one more strong card which -PRON- can play in due time . 

      Mortimer have stay to dinner , and -PRON- and the baronet play cart 
      afterwards . the butler bring -PRON- -PRON- coffee into the library , and -PRON- 
      take the chance to ask -PRON- a few question . 

      " well , " say -PRON- , " have this precious relation of -PRON- depart , or be 
      -PRON- still lurk out yonder ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know , sir . -PRON- hope to heaven that -PRON- have go , for -PRON- have 
      bring nothing but trouble here ! -PRON- have not hear of -PRON- since -PRON- leave 
      out food for -PRON- last , and that be three day ago . " 

      " do -PRON- see -PRON- then ? " 

      " no , sir , but the food be go when next -PRON- go that way . " 

      " then -PRON- be certainly there ? " 

      " so -PRON- would think , sir , unless -PRON- be the other man who take -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- sit with -PRON- coffee - cup halfway to -PRON- lip and stare at Barrymore . 

      " -PRON- know that there be another man then ? " 

      " yes , sir ; there be another man upon the moor . " 

      " have -PRON- see -PRON- ? " 

      " no , sir . " 

      " how do -PRON- know of -PRON- then ? " 

      " Selden tell -PRON- of -PRON- , sir , a week ago or more . -PRON- be in hiding , too , 
      but -PRON- be not a convict as far as -PRON- can make out . -PRON- do not like -PRON- , Dr. 
      Watson -- -PRON- tell -PRON- straight , sir , that -PRON- do not like -PRON- . " -PRON- speak 
      with a sudden passion of earnestness . 

      " now , listen to -PRON- , Barrymore ! -PRON- have no interest in this matter but 
      that of -PRON- master . -PRON- have come here with no object except to help 
      -PRON- . tell -PRON- , frankly , what -PRON- be that -PRON- do not like . " 

      Barrymore hesitate for a moment , as if -PRON- regret -PRON- outburst , or 
      find -PRON- difficult to express -PRON- own feeling in word . 

      " -PRON- be all these going - on , sir , " -PRON- cry at last , wave -PRON- hand 
      towards the rain - lash window which face the moor . " there be foul 
      play somewhere , and there be black villainy brewing , to that -PRON- will 
      swear ! very glad -PRON- should be , sir , to see Sir Henry on -PRON- way back 
      to London again ! " 

      " but what be -PRON- that alarm -PRON- ? " 

      " look at Sir Charles 's death ! that be bad enough , for all that the 
      coroner say . look at the noise on the moor at night . there be not a 
      man would cross -PRON- after sundown if -PRON- be pay for -PRON- . look at this 
      stranger hide out yonder , and watch and wait ! what be -PRON- 
      wait for ? what do -PRON- mean ? -PRON- mean no good to anyone of the 
      name of Baskerville , and very glad -PRON- shall be to be quit of -PRON- all on 
      the day that Sir Henry 's new servant be ready to take over the 
      Hall . " 

      " but about this stranger , " say I. " Can -PRON- tell -PRON- anything about 
      -PRON- ? what do Selden say ? do -PRON- find out where -PRON- hide , or what -PRON- 
      be do ? " 

      " -PRON- see -PRON- once or twice , but -PRON- be a deep one , and give nothing 
      away . at first -PRON- think that -PRON- be the police , but soon -PRON- find 
      that -PRON- have some lay of -PRON- own . a kind of gentleman -PRON- be , as far 
      as -PRON- could see , but what -PRON- be do -PRON- could not make out . " 

      " and where do -PRON- say that -PRON- live ? " 

      " among the old house on the hillside -- the stone hut where the old 
      folk use to live . " 

      " but how about -PRON- food ? " 

      " Selden find out that -PRON- have get a lad who work for -PRON- and bring 
      -PRON- all -PRON- need . -PRON- dare say -PRON- go to Coombe Tracey for what -PRON- 
      want . " 

      " very good , Barrymore . -PRON- may talk further of this some other time . " 
      when the butler have go -PRON- walk over to the black window , and -PRON- 
      look through a blurred pane at the drive cloud and at the 
      toss outline of the wind - sweep tree . -PRON- be a wild night indoor , 
      and what must -PRON- be in a stone hut upon the moor . what passion of 
      hatred can -PRON- be which lead a man to lurk in such a place at such a 
      time ! and what deep and earnest purpose can -PRON- have which call for 
      such a trial ! there , in that hut upon the moor , seem to lie the very 
      centre of that problem which have vex -PRON- so sorely . -PRON- swear that 
      another day shall not have pass before -PRON- have do all that man can 
      do to reach the heart of the mystery . 





           CHAPTER XI 
           the Man on the tor 


      the extract from -PRON- private diary which form the last chapter have 
      bring -PRON- narrative up to the 18th of October , a time when these 
      strange event begin to move swiftly towards -PRON- terrible 
      conclusion . the incident of the next few day be indelibly grave 
      upon -PRON- recollection , and -PRON- can tell -PRON- without reference to the 
      note make at the time . -PRON- start then from the day which succeed 
      that upon which -PRON- have establish two fact of great importance , the 
      one that Mrs. Laura Lyons of Coombe Tracey have write to Sir Charles 
      Baskerville and make an appointment with -PRON- at the very place and 
      hour that -PRON- meet -PRON- death , the other that the lurk man upon the 
      moor be to be find among the stone hut upon the hill - side . with 
      these two fact in -PRON- possession -PRON- feel that either -PRON- intelligence 
      or -PRON- courage must be deficient if -PRON- could not throw some further 
      light upon these dark place . 

      -PRON- have no opportunity to tell the baronet what -PRON- have learn about 
      Mrs. Lyons upon the evening before , for Dr. Mortimer remain with 
      -PRON- at card until -PRON- be very late . at breakfast , however , -PRON- 
      inform -PRON- about -PRON- discovery , and ask -PRON- whether -PRON- would care 
      to accompany -PRON- to Coombe Tracey . at first -PRON- be very eager to come , 
      but on second thought -PRON- seem to both of -PRON- that if -PRON- go alone 
      the result may be well . the more formal -PRON- make the visit the 
      less information -PRON- may obtain . -PRON- leave Sir Henry behind , therefore , 
      not without some pricking of conscience , and drive off upon -PRON- new 
      quest . 

      when -PRON- reach Coombe Tracey -PRON- tell Perkins to put up the horse , and 
      -PRON- make inquiry for the lady whom -PRON- have come to interrogate . -PRON- have 
      no difficulty in find -PRON- room , which be central and well 
      appoint . a maid show -PRON- in without ceremony , and as -PRON- enter the 
      sit - room a lady , who be sit before a Remington typewriter , 
      spring up with a pleasant smile of welcome . -PRON- face fall , however , 
      when -PRON- see that -PRON- be a stranger , and -PRON- sit down again and ask 
      -PRON- the object of -PRON- visit . 

      the first impression leave by Mrs. Lyons be one of extreme beauty . 
      -PRON- eye and hair be of the same rich hazel colour , and -PRON- cheek , 
      though considerably freckle , be flush with the exquisite bloom 
      of the brunette , the dainty pink which lurk at the heart of the 
      sulphur rise . admiration be , -PRON- repeat , the first impression . but the 
      second be criticism . there be something subtly wrong with the face , 
      some coarseness of expression , some hardness , perhaps , of eye , some 
      looseness of lip which mar -PRON- perfect beauty . but these , of 
      course , be after - thought . at the moment -PRON- be simply conscious that 
      -PRON- be in the presence of a very handsome woman , and that -PRON- be 
      ask -PRON- the reason for -PRON- visit . -PRON- have not quite understand until 
      that instant how delicate -PRON- mission be . 

      " -PRON- have the pleasure , " say -PRON- , " of know -PRON- father . " -PRON- be a 
      clumsy introduction , and the lady make -PRON- feel -PRON- . 

      " there be nothing in common between -PRON- father and -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " -PRON- 
      owe -PRON- nothing , and -PRON- friend be not mine . if -PRON- be not for the 
      late Sir Charles Baskerville and some other kind heart -PRON- may have 
      starve for all that -PRON- father care . " 

      " -PRON- be about the late Sir Charles Baskerville that -PRON- have come here 
      to see -PRON- . " 

      the freckle start out on the lady 's face . 

      " what can -PRON- tell -PRON- about -PRON- ? " -PRON- ask , and -PRON- finger play 
      nervously over the stop of -PRON- typewriter . 

      " -PRON- know -PRON- , do -PRON- not ? " 

      " -PRON- have already say that -PRON- owe a great deal to -PRON- kindness . if -PRON- be 
      able to support -PRON- -PRON- be largely due to the interest which -PRON- 
      take in -PRON- unhappy situation . " 

      " do -PRON- correspond with -PRON- ? " 

      the lady look quickly up with an angry gleam in -PRON- hazel eye . 

      " what be the object of these question ? " -PRON- ask sharply . 

      " the object be to avoid a public scandal . -PRON- be well that -PRON- should 
      ask -PRON- here than that the matter should pass outside -PRON- control . " 

      -PRON- be silent and -PRON- face be still very pale . at last -PRON- look 
      up with something reckless and defiant in -PRON- manner . 

      " well , -PRON- will answer , " -PRON- say . " what be -PRON- question ? " 

      " do -PRON- correspond with Sir Charles ? " 

      " -PRON- certainly write to -PRON- once or twice to acknowledge -PRON- delicacy 
      and -PRON- generosity . " 

      " have -PRON- the date of those letter ? " 

      " no . " 

      " have -PRON- ever meet -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , once or twice , when -PRON- come into Coombe Tracey . -PRON- be a very 
      retire man , and -PRON- prefer to do good by stealth . " 

      " but if -PRON- see -PRON- so seldom and write so seldom , how do -PRON- know 
      enough about -PRON- affair to be able to help -PRON- , as -PRON- say that -PRON- 
      have do ? " 

      -PRON- meet -PRON- difficulty with the utmost readiness . 

      " there be several gentleman who know -PRON- sad history and unite to 
      help -PRON- . one be Mr. Stapleton , a neighbour and intimate friend of 
      Sir Charles 's . -PRON- be exceedingly kind , and -PRON- be through -PRON- that 
      Sir Charles learn about -PRON- affair . " 

      -PRON- know already that Sir Charles Baskerville have make Stapleton -PRON- 
      almoner upon several occasion , so the lady 's statement bear the 
      impress of truth upon -PRON- . 

      " do -PRON- ever write to Sir Charles ask -PRON- to meet -PRON- ? " -PRON- 
      continue . 

      Mrs. Lyons flush with anger again . 

      " really , sir , this be a very extraordinary question . " 

      " -PRON- be sorry , madam , but -PRON- must repeat -PRON- . " 

      " then -PRON- answer , certainly not . " 

      " not on the very day of Sir Charles 's death ? " 

      the flush have fade in an instant , and a deathly face be before -PRON- . 
      -PRON- dry lip could not speak the " no " which -PRON- see rather than hear . 

      " surely -PRON- memory deceive -PRON- , " say I. " -PRON- could even quote a 
      passage of -PRON- letter . -PRON- run ' please , please , as -PRON- be a 
      gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten o'clock . ' " 

      -PRON- think that -PRON- have faint , but -PRON- recover -PRON- by a 
      supreme effort . 

      " be there no such thing as a gentleman ? " -PRON- gasp . 

      " -PRON- do Sir Charles an injustice . -PRON- do burn the letter . but 
      sometimes a letter may be legible even when burn . -PRON- acknowledge 
      now that -PRON- write -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- do write -PRON- , " -PRON- cry , pour out -PRON- soul in a torrent 
      of word . " -PRON- do write -PRON- . why should -PRON- deny -PRON- ? -PRON- have no reason to 
      be ashamed of -PRON- . -PRON- wish -PRON- to help -PRON- . -PRON- believe that if -PRON- have 
      an interview -PRON- could gain -PRON- help , so -PRON- ask -PRON- to meet -PRON- . " 

      " but why at such an hour ? " 

      " because -PRON- have only just learn that -PRON- be go to London next day 
      and may be away for month . there be reason why -PRON- could not get 
      there earlier . " 

      " but why a rendezvous in the garden instead of a visit to the house ? " 

      " do -PRON- think a woman could go alone at that hour to a bachelor 's 
      house ? " 

      " well , what happen when -PRON- do get there ? " 

      " -PRON- never go . " 

      " Mrs. Lyons ! " 

      " no , -PRON- swear -PRON- to -PRON- on all -PRON- hold sacred . -PRON- never go . something 
      intervene to prevent -PRON- going . " 

      " what be that ? " 

      " that be a private matter . -PRON- can not tell -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- acknowledge then that -PRON- make an appointment with Sir Charles 
      at the very hour and place at which -PRON- meet -PRON- death , but -PRON- deny 
      that -PRON- keep the appointment . " 

      " that be the truth . " 

      again and again -PRON- cross - question -PRON- , but -PRON- could never get past 
      that point . 

      " Mrs. Lyons , " say -PRON- , as -PRON- rise from this long and inconclusive 
      interview , " -PRON- be take a very great responsibility and put 
      -PRON- in a very false position by not make an absolutely clean 
      breast of all that -PRON- know . if -PRON- have to call in the aid of the 
      police -PRON- will find how seriously -PRON- be compromised . if -PRON- 
      position be innocent , why do -PRON- in the first instance deny have 
      write to Sir Charles upon that date ? " 

      " because -PRON- fear that some false conclusion may be draw from -PRON- 
      and that -PRON- may find -PRON- involved in a scandal . " 

      " and why be -PRON- so press that Sir Charles should destroy -PRON- 
      letter ? " 

      " if -PRON- have read the letter -PRON- will know . " 

      " -PRON- do not say that -PRON- have read all the letter . " 

      " -PRON- quote some of -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- quote the postscript . the letter have , as -PRON- say , be burn and 
      -PRON- be not all legible . -PRON- ask -PRON- once again why -PRON- be that -PRON- be 
      so press that Sir Charles should destroy this letter which -PRON- 
      receive on the day of -PRON- death . " 

      " the matter be a very private one . " 

      " the more reason why -PRON- should avoid a public investigation . " 

      " -PRON- will tell -PRON- , then . if -PRON- have hear anything of -PRON- unhappy 
      history -PRON- will know that -PRON- make a rash marriage and have reason to 
      regret -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- have hear so much . " 

      " -PRON- life have be one incessant persecution from a husband whom -PRON- 
      abhor . the law be upon -PRON- side , and every day -PRON- be face by the 
      possibility that -PRON- may force -PRON- to live with -PRON- . at the time that -PRON- 
      write this letter to Sir Charles -PRON- have learn that there be a 
      prospect of -PRON- regain -PRON- freedom if certain expense could be meet . 
      -PRON- mean everything to -PRON- -- peace of mind , happiness , 
      self - respect -- everything . -PRON- know Sir Charles 's generosity , and -PRON- 
      think that if -PRON- hear the story from -PRON- own lip -PRON- would help 
      -PRON- . " 

      " then how be -PRON- that -PRON- do not go ? " 

      " because -PRON- receive help in the interval from another source . " 

      " why then , do -PRON- not write to Sir Charles and explain this ? " 

      " so -PRON- should have do have -PRON- not see -PRON- death in the paper next 
      morning . " 

      the woman 's story hang coherently together , and all -PRON- question be 
      unable to shake -PRON- . -PRON- could only check -PRON- by find if -PRON- have , 
      indeed , institute divorce proceeding against -PRON- husband at or 
      about the time of the tragedy . 

      -PRON- be unlikely that -PRON- would dare to say that -PRON- have not be to 
      Baskerville Hall if -PRON- really have be , for a trap would be 
      necessary to take -PRON- there , and could not have return to Coombe 
      Tracey until the early hour of the morning . such an excursion could 
      not be keep secret . the probability be , therefore , that -PRON- be 
      tell the truth , or , at least , a part of the truth . -PRON- come away 
      baffle and dishearten . once again -PRON- have reach that dead wall 
      which seem to be build across every path by which -PRON- try to get at 
      the object of -PRON- mission . and yet the more -PRON- think of the lady 's 
      face and of -PRON- manner the more -PRON- feel that something be be hold 
      back from -PRON- . why should -PRON- turn so pale ? why should -PRON- fight 
      against every admission until -PRON- be force from -PRON- ? why should -PRON- 
      have be so reticent at the time of the tragedy ? surely the 
      explanation of all this could not be as innocent as -PRON- would have -PRON- 
      believe . for the moment -PRON- could proceed no farther in that direction , 
      but must turn back to that other clue which be to be seek for 
      among the stone hut upon the moor . 

      and that be a most vague direction . -PRON- realize -PRON- as -PRON- drive back 
      and note how hill after hill show trace of the ancient people . 
      Barrymore 's only indication have be that the stranger live in one 
      of these abandon hut , and many hundred of -PRON- be scatter 
      throughout the length and breadth of the moor . but -PRON- have -PRON- own 
      experience for a guide since -PRON- have show -PRON- the man -PRON- stand 
      upon the summit of the Black Tor . that then should be the centre of 
      -PRON- search . from there -PRON- should explore every hut upon the moor until 
      -PRON- light upon the right one . if this man be inside -PRON- -PRON- should 
      find out from -PRON- own lip , at the point of -PRON- revolver if necessary , 
      who -PRON- be and why -PRON- have dog -PRON- so long . -PRON- may slip away from 
      -PRON- in the crowd of Regent Street , but -PRON- would puzzle -PRON- to do so 
      upon the lonely moor . on the other hand , if -PRON- should find the hut and 
      -PRON- tenant should not be within -PRON- -PRON- must remain there , however long 
      the vigil , until -PRON- return . Holmes have miss -PRON- in London . -PRON- 
      would indeed be a triumph for -PRON- if -PRON- could run -PRON- to earth , where 
      -PRON- master have fail . 

      Luck have be against -PRON- again and again in this inquiry , but now at 
      last -PRON- come to -PRON- aid . and the messenger of good fortune be none 
      other than Mr. Frankland , who be stand , gray - whiskered and 
      red - face , outside the gate of -PRON- garden , which open on to the 
      high road along which -PRON- travel . 

      " Good - day , Dr. Watson , " cry -PRON- with unwonted good humour , " -PRON- must 
      really give -PRON- horse a rest , and come in to have a glass of wine 
      and to congratulate -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- feeling towards -PRON- be very far from be friendly after what 
      -PRON- have hear of -PRON- treatment of -PRON- daughter , but -PRON- be anxious to 
      send Perkins and the wagonette home , and the opportunity be a good 
      one . -PRON- alight and send a message to Sir Henry that -PRON- should walk 
      over in time for dinner . then -PRON- follow Frankland into -PRON- 
      dining - room . 

      " -PRON- be a great day for -PRON- , sir -- one of the red - letter day of -PRON- 
      life , " -PRON- cry with many chuckle . " -PRON- have bring off a double 
      event . -PRON- mean to teach -PRON- in these part that law be law , and that 
      there be a man here who do not fear to invoke -PRON- . -PRON- have 
      establish a right of way through the centre of old Middleton 's 
      park , slap across -PRON- , sir , within a hundred yard of -PRON- own front 
      door . what do -PRON- think of that ? -PRON- will teach these magnate that -PRON- 
      can not ride roughshod over the right of the commoner , confound 
      -PRON- ! and -PRON- have close the wood where the Fernworthy folk use to 
      picnic . these infernal people seem to think that there be no right 
      of property , and that -PRON- can swarm where -PRON- like with -PRON- 
      paper and -PRON- bottle . both case decide , Dr. Watson , and both in 
      -PRON- favour . -PRON- have not have such a day since -PRON- have Sir John Morland for 
      trespass , because -PRON- shoot in -PRON- own warren . " 

      " how on earth do -PRON- do that ? " 

      " look -PRON- up in the book , sir . -PRON- will repay reading -- Frankland v. 
      Morland , Court of Queen 's Bench . -PRON- cost -PRON- 200 pound , but -PRON- get -PRON- 
      verdict . " 

      " do -PRON- do -PRON- any good ? " 

      " none , sir , none . -PRON- be proud to say that -PRON- have no interest in the 
      matter . -PRON- act entirely from a sense of public duty . -PRON- have no doubt , 
      for example , that the Fernworthy people will burn -PRON- in effigy 
      to - night . -PRON- tell the police last time -PRON- do -PRON- that -PRON- should 
      stop these disgraceful exhibition . the County Constabulary be in a 
      scandalous state , sir , and -PRON- have not afford -PRON- the protection to 
      which -PRON- be entitle . the case of Frankland v. Regina will bring the 
      matter before the attention of the public . -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- 
      would have occasion to regret -PRON- treatment of -PRON- , and already -PRON- 
      word have come true . " 

      " how so ? " -PRON- ask . 

      the old man put on a very know expression . 

      " because -PRON- could tell -PRON- what -PRON- be die to know ; but nothing 
      would induce -PRON- to help the rascal in any way . " 

      -PRON- have be cast round for some excuse by which -PRON- could get away 
      from -PRON- gossip , but now -PRON- begin to wish to hear more of -PRON- . -PRON- have 
      see enough of the contrary nature of the old sinner to understand 
      that any strong sign of interest would be the sure way to stop -PRON- 
      confidence . 

      " some poaching case , no doubt ? " say -PRON- , with an indifferent manner . 

      " ha , ha , -PRON- boy , a very much more important matter than that ! what 
      about the convict on the moor ? " 

      -PRON- start . " -PRON- do not mean that -PRON- know where -PRON- be ? " say I. 

      " -PRON- may not know exactly where -PRON- be , but -PRON- be quite sure that -PRON- could 
      help the police to lay -PRON- hand on -PRON- . have -PRON- never strike -PRON- 
      that the way to catch that man be to find out where -PRON- get -PRON- food , 
      and so trace -PRON- to -PRON- ? " 

      -PRON- certainly seem to be get uncomfortably near the truth . " no 
      doubt , " say -PRON- ; " but how do -PRON- know that -PRON- be anywhere upon the 
      moor ? " 

      " -PRON- know -PRON- because -PRON- have see with -PRON- own eye the messenger who 
      take -PRON- -PRON- food . " 

      -PRON- heart sink for Barrymore . -PRON- be a serious thing to be in the 
      power of this spiteful old busybody . but -PRON- next remark take a 
      weight from -PRON- mind . 

      " -PRON- will be surprised to hear that -PRON- food be take to -PRON- by a 
      child . -PRON- see -PRON- every day through -PRON- telescope upon the roof . -PRON- 
      pass along the same path at the same hour , and to whom should -PRON- be 
      go except to the convict ? " 

      here be luck indeed ! and yet -PRON- suppress all appearance of 
      interest . a child ! Barrymore have say that -PRON- unknown be supply 
      by a boy . -PRON- be on -PRON- track , and not upon the convict 's , that 
      Frankland have stumble . if -PRON- could get -PRON- knowledge -PRON- may save -PRON- 
      a long and weary hunt . but incredulity and indifference be 
      evidently -PRON- strong card . 

      " -PRON- should say that -PRON- be much more likely that -PRON- be the son of one 
      of the moorland shepherd take out -PRON- father 's dinner . " 

      the least appearance of opposition strike fire out of the old 
      autocrat . -PRON- eye look malignantly at -PRON- , and -PRON- gray whisker 
      bristle like those of an angry cat . 

      " indeed , sir ! " say -PRON- , point out over the wide - stretch moor . 
      " do -PRON- see that Black Tor over yonder ? well , do -PRON- see the low hill 
      beyond with the thornbush upon -PRON- ? -PRON- be the stony part of the 
      whole moor . be that a place where a shepherd would be likely to take 
      -PRON- station ? -PRON- suggestion , sir , be a most absurd one . " 

      -PRON- meekly answer that -PRON- have speak without know all the fact . -PRON- 
      submission please -PRON- and lead -PRON- to further confidence . 

      " -PRON- may be sure , sir , that -PRON- have very good ground before -PRON- come to 
      an opinion . -PRON- have see the boy again and again with -PRON- bundle . 
      every day , and sometimes twice a day , -PRON- have be able -- but wait a 
      moment , Dr. Watson . do -PRON- eye deceive -PRON- , or be there at the present 
      moment something move upon that hill - side ? " 

      -PRON- be several mile off , but -PRON- could distinctly see a small dark dot 
      against the dull green and gray . 

      " come , sir , come ! " cry Frankland , rush upstairs . " -PRON- will see 
      with -PRON- own eye and judge for -PRON- . " 

      the telescope , a formidable instrument mount upon a tripod , stand 
      upon the flat lead of the house . Frankland clap -PRON- eye to -PRON- and 
      give a cry of satisfaction . 

      " Quick , Dr. Watson , quick , before -PRON- pass over the hill ! " 

      there -PRON- be , sure enough , a small urchin with a little bundle upon 
      -PRON- shoulder , toil slowly up the hill . when -PRON- reach the crest -PRON- 
      see the ragged uncouth figure outline for an instant against the 
      cold blue sky . -PRON- look round -PRON- with a furtive and stealthy air , 
      as one who dread pursuit . then -PRON- vanish over the hill . 

      " well ! be -PRON- right ? " 

      " certainly , there be a boy who seem to have some secret errand . " 

      " and what the errand be even a county constable could guess . but not 
      one word shall -PRON- have from -PRON- , and -PRON- bind -PRON- to secrecy also , Dr. 
      Watson . not a word ! -PRON- understand ! " 

      " just as -PRON- wish . " 

      " -PRON- have treat -PRON- shamefully -- shamefully . when the fact come out 
      in Frankland v. Regina -PRON- venture to think that a thrill of 
      indignation will run through the country . nothing would induce -PRON- to 
      help the police in any way . for all -PRON- care -PRON- may have be -PRON- , 
      instead of -PRON- effigy , which these rascal burn at the stake . surely 
      -PRON- be not go ! -PRON- will help -PRON- to empty the decanter in honour 
      of this great occasion ! " 

      but -PRON- resist all -PRON- solicitation and succeed in dissuade -PRON- 
      from -PRON- announced intention of walk home with -PRON- . -PRON- keep the road 
      as long as -PRON- eye be on -PRON- , and then -PRON- strike off across the moor 
      and make for the stony hill over which the boy have disappear . 
      everything be work in -PRON- favour , and -PRON- swear that -PRON- should not 
      be through lack of energy or perseverance that -PRON- should miss the 
      chance which fortune have throw in -PRON- way . 

      the sun be already sink when -PRON- reach the summit of the hill , 
      and the long slope beneath -PRON- be all golden - green on one side and 
      gray shadow on the other . a haze lie low upon the farth sky - line , 
      out of which jut the fantastic shape of Belliver and Vixen Tor . 
      over the wide expanse there be no sound and no movement . one great 
      gray bird , a gull or curlew , soar aloft in the blue heaven . -PRON- and 
      -PRON- seem to be the only live thing between the huge arch of the 
      sky and the desert beneath -PRON- . the barren scene , the sense of 
      loneliness , and the mystery and urgency of -PRON- task all strike a chill 
      into -PRON- heart . the boy be nowhere to be see . but down beneath -PRON- in 
      a cleft of the hill there be a circle of the old stone hut , and in 
      the middle of -PRON- there be one which retain sufficient roof to 
      act as a screen against the weather . -PRON- heart leap within -PRON- as -PRON- 
      see -PRON- . this must be the burrow where the stranger lurk . at last -PRON- 
      foot be on the threshold of -PRON- hiding place -- -PRON- secret be within 
      -PRON- grasp . 

      as -PRON- approach the hut , walk as warily as Stapleton would do when 
      with poise net -PRON- draw near the settle butterfly , -PRON- satisfy 
      -PRON- that the place have indeed be use as a habitation . a vague 
      pathway among the boulder lead to the dilapidated opening which 
      serve as a door . all be silent within . the unknown may be lurk 
      there , or -PRON- may be prowl on the moor . -PRON- nerve tingle with 
      the sense of adventure . throw aside -PRON- cigarette , -PRON- close -PRON- hand 
      upon the butt of -PRON- revolver and , walk swiftly up to the door , -PRON- 
      look in . the place be empty . 

      but there be ample sign that -PRON- have not come upon a false scent . 
      this be certainly where the man live . some blanket roll in a 
      waterproof lie upon that very stone slab upon which neolithic man have 
      once slumber . the ashe of a fire be heap in a rude grate . 
      beside -PRON- lie some cooking utensil and a bucket half - full of water . 
      a litter of empty tin show that the place have be occupy for 
      some time , and -PRON- see , as -PRON- eye become accustomed to the checker 
      light , a pannikin and a half - full bottle of spirit stand in the 
      corner . in the middle of the hut a flat stone serve the purpose of a 
      table , and upon this stand a small cloth bundle -- the same , no doubt , 
      which -PRON- have see through the telescope upon the shoulder of the boy . 
      -PRON- contain a loaf of bread , a tinned tongue , and two tin of 
      preserve peach . as -PRON- set -PRON- down again , after have examine -PRON- , 
      -PRON- heart leap to see that beneath -PRON- there lie a sheet of paper 
      with write upon -PRON- . -PRON- raise -PRON- , and this be what -PRON- read , roughly 
      scrawl in pencil:-- 

      Dr. Watson have go to Coombe Tracey . 

      for a minute -PRON- stand there with the paper in -PRON- hand think out 
      the meaning of this curt message . -PRON- be -PRON- , then , and not Sir Henry , 
      who be be dog by this secret man . -PRON- have not follow -PRON- 
      -PRON- , but -PRON- have set an agent -- the boy , perhaps -- upon -PRON- track , 
      and this be -PRON- report . possibly -PRON- have take no step since -PRON- have 
      be upon the moor which have not be observe and report . always 
      there be this feeling of an unseen force , a fine net draw round -PRON- 
      with infinite skill and delicacy , hold -PRON- so lightly that -PRON- be 
      only at some supreme moment that one realize that one be indeed 
      entangle in -PRON- mesh . 

      if there be one report there may be other , so -PRON- look round the 
      hut in search of -PRON- . there be no trace , however , of anything of 
      the kind , nor could -PRON- discover any sign which may indicate the 
      character or intention of the man who live in this singular place , 
      save that -PRON- must be of spartan habit and care little for the 
      comfort of life . when -PRON- think of the heavy rain and look at the 
      gape roof -PRON- understand how strong and immutable must be the purpose 
      which have keep -PRON- in that inhospitable abode . be -PRON- -PRON- malignant 
      enemy , or be -PRON- by chance -PRON- guardian angel ? -PRON- swear that -PRON- would 
      not leave the hut until -PRON- know . 

      outside the sun be sink low and the west be blaze with scarlet 
      and gold . -PRON- reflection be shoot back in ruddy patch by the 
      distant pool which lie amid the great Grimpen Mire . there be the 
      two tower of Baskerville Hall , and there a distant blur of smoke 
      which mark the village of Grimpen . between the two , behind the 
      hill , be the house of the Stapletons . all be sweet and mellow and 
      peaceful in the golden evening light , and yet as -PRON- look at -PRON- -PRON- 
      soul share none of the peace of nature but quiver at the vagueness 
      and the terror of that interview which every instant be bring 
      near . with tingle nerve , but a fix purpose , -PRON- sit in the dark 
      recess of the hut and wait with sombre patience for the coming of 
      -PRON- tenant . 

      and then at last -PRON- hear -PRON- . far away come the sharp clink of a boot 
      strike upon a stone . then another and yet another , come nearer 
      and near . -PRON- shrink back into the dark corner , and cock the 
      pistol in -PRON- pocket , determine not to discover -PRON- until -PRON- have an 
      opportunity of see something of the stranger . there be a long 
      pause which show that -PRON- have stop . then once more the footstep 
      approach and a shadow fall across the opening of the hut . 

      " -PRON- be a lovely evening , -PRON- dear Watson , " say a well - know voice . " -PRON- 
      really think that -PRON- will be more comfortable outside than in . " 





           CHAPTER XII 
           death on the Moor 


      for a moment or two -PRON- sit breathless , hardly able to believe -PRON- ear . 
      then -PRON- sense and -PRON- voice come back to -PRON- , while a crush weight 
      of responsibility seem in an instant to be lift from -PRON- soul . 
      that cold , incisive , ironical voice could belong to but one man in 
      all the world . 

      " Holmes ! " -PRON- cried--"holme ! " 

      " come out , " say -PRON- , " and please be careful with the revolver . " 

      -PRON- stoop under the rude lintel , and there -PRON- sit upon a stone 
      outside , -PRON- gray eye dance with amusement as -PRON- fall upon -PRON- 
      astonished feature . -PRON- be thin and worn , but clear and alert , -PRON- 
      keen face bronze by the sun and roughen by the wind . in -PRON- tweed 
      suit and cloth cap -PRON- look like any other tourist upon the moor , 
      and -PRON- have contrive , with that cat - like love of personal cleanliness 
      which be one of -PRON- characteristic , that -PRON- chin should be as 
      smooth and -PRON- linen as perfect as if -PRON- be in Baker Street . 

      " -PRON- never be more glad to see anyone in -PRON- life , " say -PRON- , as -PRON- wring 
      -PRON- by the hand . 

      " or more astonished , eh ? " 

      " well , -PRON- must confess to -PRON- . " 

      " the surprise be not all on one side , -PRON- assure -PRON- . -PRON- have no idea 
      that -PRON- have find -PRON- occasional retreat , still less that -PRON- be 
      inside -PRON- , until -PRON- be within twenty pace of the door . " 

      " -PRON- footprint , -PRON- presume ? " 

      " no , Watson ; -PRON- fear that -PRON- could not undertake to recognize -PRON- 
      footprint amid all the footprint of the world . if -PRON- seriously 
      desire to deceive -PRON- -PRON- must change -PRON- tobacconist ; for when -PRON- see 
      the stub of a cigarette mark Bradley , Oxford Street , -PRON- know that -PRON- 
      friend Watson be in the neighbourhood . -PRON- will see -PRON- there beside 
      the path . -PRON- throw -PRON- down , no doubt , at that supreme moment when 
      -PRON- charge into the empty hut . " 

      " exactly . " 

      " -PRON- think as much -- and know -PRON- admirable tenacity -PRON- be 
      convinced that -PRON- be sit in ambush , a weapon within reach , 
      wait for the tenant to return . so -PRON- actually think that -PRON- be 
      the criminal ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know who -PRON- be , but -PRON- be determined to find out . " 

      " Excellent , Watson ! and how do -PRON- localize -PRON- ? -PRON- see -PRON- , perhaps , 
      on the night of the convict hunt , when -PRON- be so imprudent as to allow 
      the moon to rise behind -PRON- ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- see -PRON- then . " 

      " and have no doubt search all the hut until -PRON- come to this one ? " 

      " no , -PRON- boy have be observe , and that give -PRON- a guide where to 
      look . " 

      " the old gentleman with the telescope , no doubt . -PRON- could not make -PRON- 
      out when first -PRON- see the light flash upon the lens . " -PRON- rise and 
      peep into the hut . " ha , -PRON- see that Cartwright have bring up some 
      supply . what be this paper ? so -PRON- have be to Coombe Tracey , have 
      -PRON- ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " to see Mrs. Laura Lyons ? " 

      " exactly . " 

      " well do ! -PRON- research have evidently be run on parallel 
      line , and when -PRON- unite -PRON- result -PRON- expect -PRON- shall have a fairly 
      full knowledge of the case . " 

      " well , -PRON- be glad from -PRON- heart that -PRON- be here , for indeed the 
      responsibility and the mystery be both become too much for -PRON- 
      nerve . but how in the name of wonder do -PRON- come here , and what 
      have -PRON- be do ? -PRON- think that -PRON- be in Baker Street work 
      out that case of blackmailing . " 

      " that be what -PRON- wish -PRON- to think . " 

      " then -PRON- use -PRON- , and yet do not trust -PRON- ! " -PRON- cry with some 
      bitterness . " -PRON- think that -PRON- have deserve better at -PRON- hand , 
      Holmes . " 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , -PRON- have be invaluable to -PRON- in this as in many 
      other case , and -PRON- beg that -PRON- will forgive -PRON- if -PRON- have seem to 
      play a trick upon -PRON- . in truth , -PRON- be partly for -PRON- own sake that 
      -PRON- do -PRON- , and -PRON- be -PRON- appreciation of the danger which -PRON- run 
      which lead -PRON- to come down and examine the matter for -PRON- . have -PRON- 
      be with Sir Henry and -PRON- -PRON- be confident that -PRON- point of view 
      would have be the same as -PRON- , and -PRON- presence would have warn 
      -PRON- very formidable opponent to be on -PRON- guard . as -PRON- be , -PRON- have 
      be able to get about as -PRON- could not possibly have do have -PRON- be 
      live in the Hall , and -PRON- remain an unknown factor in the business , 
      ready to throw in all -PRON- weight at a critical moment . " 

      " but why keep -PRON- in the dark ? " 

      " for -PRON- to know could not have help -PRON- , and may possibly have 
      lead to -PRON- discovery . -PRON- would have wish to tell -PRON- something , or 
      in -PRON- kindness -PRON- would have bring -PRON- out some comfort or other , 
      and so an unnecessary risk would be run . -PRON- bring Cartwright down 
      with -PRON- -- -PRON- remember the little chap at the express office -- and -PRON- 
      have see after -PRON- simple want : a loaf of bread and a clean collar . 
      what do man want more ? -PRON- have give -PRON- an extra pair of eye upon a 
      very active pair of foot , and both have be invaluable . " 

      " then -PRON- report have all be wasted!"--My voice tremble as -PRON- 
      recall the pain and the pride with which -PRON- have compose -PRON- . 

      Holmes take a bundle of paper from -PRON- pocket . 

      " here be -PRON- report , -PRON- dear fellow , and very well thumbed , -PRON- 
      assure -PRON- . -PRON- make excellent arrangement , and -PRON- be only delay 
      one day upon -PRON- way . -PRON- must compliment -PRON- exceedingly upon the 
      zeal and the intelligence which -PRON- have show over an 
      extraordinarily difficult case . " 

      -PRON- be still rather raw over the deception which have be practise 
      upon -PRON- , but the warmth of Holmes 's praise drive -PRON- anger from -PRON- 
      mind . -PRON- feel also in -PRON- heart that -PRON- be right in what -PRON- say and 
      that -PRON- be really good for -PRON- purpose that -PRON- should not have know 
      that -PRON- be upon the moor . 

      " that be well , " say -PRON- , see the shadow rise from -PRON- face . " and 
      now tell -PRON- the result of -PRON- visit to Mrs. Laura Lyons -- -PRON- be not 
      difficult for -PRON- to guess that -PRON- be to see -PRON- that -PRON- have go , 
      for -PRON- be already aware that -PRON- be the one person in Coombe Tracey 
      who may be of service to -PRON- in the matter . in fact , if -PRON- have not 
      go to - day -PRON- be exceedingly probable that -PRON- should have go 
      to - morrow . " 

      the sun have set and dusk be settle over the moor . the air have 
      turn chill and -PRON- withdraw into the hut for warmth . there , sit 
      together in the twilight , -PRON- tell Holmes of -PRON- conversation with the 
      lady . so interested be -PRON- that -PRON- have to repeat some of -PRON- twice 
      before -PRON- be satisfied . 

      " this be most important , " say -PRON- when -PRON- have conclude . " -PRON- fill up 
      a gap which -PRON- have be unable to bridge , in this most complex affair . 
      -PRON- be aware , perhaps , that a close intimacy exist between this 
      lady and the man Stapleton ? " 

      " -PRON- do not know of a close intimacy . " 

      " there can be no doubt about the matter . -PRON- meet , -PRON- write , there 
      be a complete understanding between -PRON- . now , this put a very 
      powerful weapon into -PRON- hand . if -PRON- could only use -PRON- to detach -PRON- 
      wife-- " 

      " -PRON- wife ? " 

      " -PRON- be give -PRON- some information now , in return for all that -PRON- 
      have give -PRON- . the lady who have pass here as Miss Stapleton be in 
      reality -PRON- wife . " 

      " good heaven , Holmes ! be -PRON- sure of what -PRON- say ? how could -PRON- 
      have permit Sir Henry to fall in love with -PRON- ? " 

      " Sir Henry 's fall in love could do no harm to anyone except Sir 
      Henry . -PRON- take particular care that Sir Henry do not make love to 
      -PRON- , as -PRON- have -PRON- observe . -PRON- repeat that the lady be -PRON- 
      wife and not -PRON- sister . " 

      " but why this elaborate deception ? " 

      " because -PRON- foresee that -PRON- would be very much more useful to -PRON- in 
      the character of a free woman . " 

      all -PRON- unspoken instinct , -PRON- vague suspicion , suddenly take shape 
      and centre upon the naturalist . in that impassive , colourless man , 
      with -PRON- straw hat and -PRON- butterfly - net , -PRON- seem to see something 
      terrible -- a creature of infinite patience and craft , with a smile 
      face and a murderous heart . 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- , then , who be -PRON- enemy -- -PRON- be -PRON- who dog -PRON- in London ? " 

      " so -PRON- read the riddle . " 

      " and the warning -- -PRON- must have come from -PRON- ! " 

      " exactly . " 

      the shape of some monstrous villainy , half see , half guessed , loom 
      through the darkness which have girt -PRON- so long . 

      " but be -PRON- sure of this , Holmes ? how do -PRON- know that the woman be 
      -PRON- wife ? " 

      " because -PRON- so far forget -PRON- as to tell -PRON- a true piece of 
      autobiography upon the occasion when -PRON- first meet -PRON- , and -PRON- dare say 
      -PRON- have many a time regret -PRON- since . -PRON- be once a schoolmaster in 
      the north of England . now , there be no one more easy to trace than a 
      schoolmaster . there be scholastic agency by which one may identify 
      any man who have be in the profession . a little investigation show 
      -PRON- that a school have come to grief under atrocious circumstance , and 
      that the man who have own -PRON- -- the name be different -- have 
      disappear with -PRON- wife . the description agree . when -PRON- learn 
      that the miss man be devoted to entomology the identification be 
      complete . " 

      the darkness be rise , but much be still hide by the shadow . 

      " if this woman be in truth -PRON- wife , where do Mrs. Laura Lyons come 
      in ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " that be one of the point upon which -PRON- own research have shed a 
      light . -PRON- interview with the lady have clear the situation very 
      much . -PRON- do not know about a project divorce between -PRON- and 
      -PRON- husband . in that case , regard Stapleton as an unmarried man , 
      -PRON- count no doubt upon become -PRON- wife . " 

      " and when -PRON- be undeceived ? " 

      " why , then -PRON- may find the lady of service . -PRON- must be -PRON- first duty 
      to see -PRON- -- both of -PRON- -- to - morrow . do not -PRON- think , Watson , that -PRON- 
      be away from -PRON- charge rather long ? -PRON- place should be at 
      Baskerville Hall . " 

      the last red streak have fade away in the west and night have settle 
      upon the moor . a few faint star be gleam in a violet sky . 

      " one last question , Holmes , " -PRON- say , as -PRON- rise . " surely there be no 
      need of secrecy between -PRON- and -PRON- . what be the meaning of -PRON- all ? 
      what be -PRON- after ? " 

      Holmes 's voice sink as -PRON- answered:-- 

      " -PRON- be murder , Watson -- refined , cold - blooded , deliberate murder . do 
      not ask -PRON- for particular . -PRON- net be close upon -PRON- , even as -PRON- 
      be upon Sir Henry , and with -PRON- help -PRON- be already almost at -PRON- 
      mercy . there be but one danger which can threaten -PRON- . -PRON- be that -PRON- 
      should strike before -PRON- be ready to do so . another day -- two at the 
      most -- and -PRON- have -PRON- case complete , but until then guard -PRON- charge 
      as closely as ever a fond mother watch -PRON- ail child . -PRON- 
      mission to - day have justify -PRON- , and yet -PRON- could almost wish that 
      -PRON- have not leave -PRON- side . hark ! " 

      a terrible scream -- a prolonged yell of horror and anguish -- burst out 
      of the silence of the moor . that frightful cry turn the blood to 
      ice in -PRON- vein . 

      " oh , my God ! " -PRON- gasp . " what be -PRON- ? what do -PRON- mean ? " 

      Holmes have spring to -PRON- foot , and -PRON- see -PRON- dark , athletic outline 
      at the door of the hut , -PRON- shoulder stoop , -PRON- head thrust 
      forward , -PRON- face peer into the darkness . 

      " Hush ! " -PRON- whisper . " Hush ! " 

      the cry have be loud on account of -PRON- vehemence , but -PRON- have peal 
      out from somewhere far off on the shadowy plain . now -PRON- burst upon 
      -PRON- ear , near , louder , more urgent than before . 

      " where be -PRON- ? " Holmes whisper ; and -PRON- know from the thrill of -PRON- 
      voice that -PRON- , the man of iron , be shake to the soul . " where be -PRON- , 
      Watson ? " 

      " there , -PRON- think . " -PRON- point into the darkness . 

      " no , there ! " 

      again the agonized cry sweep through the silent night , loud and 
      much near than ever . and a new sound mingle with -PRON- , a deep , 
      mutter rumble , musical and yet menacing , rise and fall like 
      the low , constant murmur of the sea . 

      " the hound ! " cry Holmes . " come , Watson , come ! great heaven , if -PRON- 
      be too late ! " 

      -PRON- have start run swiftly over the moor , and -PRON- have follow at 
      -PRON- heel . but now from somewhere among the broken ground immediately 
      in front of -PRON- there come one last despairing yell , and then a dull , 
      heavy thud . -PRON- halt and listen . not another sound break the heavy 
      silence of the windless night . 

      -PRON- see Holmes put -PRON- hand to -PRON- forehead like a man distract . -PRON- 
      stamp -PRON- foot upon the ground . 

      " -PRON- have beat -PRON- , Watson . -PRON- be too late . " 

      " no , no , surely not ! " 

      " fool that -PRON- be to hold -PRON- hand . and -PRON- , Watson , see what come of 
      abandon -PRON- charge ! but , by Heaven , if the bad have happen , 
      -PRON- will avenge -PRON- ! " 

      blindly -PRON- run through the gloom , blunder against boulder , 
      force -PRON- way through gorse bush , pant up hill and rush 
      down slope , head always in the direction whence those dreadful 
      sound have come . at every rise Holmes look eagerly round -PRON- , but 
      the shadow be thick upon the moor , and nothing move upon -PRON- 
      dreary face . 

      " Can -PRON- see anything ? " 

      " nothing . " 

      " but , hark , what be that ? " 

      a low moan have fall upon -PRON- ear . there -PRON- be again upon -PRON- 
      leave ! on that side a ridge of rock end in a sheer cliff which 
      overlook a stone - strew slope . on -PRON- jagged face be spread - eagle 
      some dark , irregular object . as -PRON- run towards -PRON- the vague outline 
      harden into a definite shape . -PRON- be a prostrate man face downward 
      upon the ground , the head double under -PRON- at a horrible angle , the 
      shoulder round and the body hunch together as if in the act of 
      throw a somersault . so grotesque be the attitude that -PRON- could not 
      for the instant realize that that moan have be the passing of -PRON- 
      soul . not a whisper , not a rustle , rise now from the dark figure over 
      which -PRON- stoop . Holmes lay -PRON- hand upon -PRON- , and hold -PRON- up 
      again , with an exclamation of horror . the gleam of the match which -PRON- 
      strike shine upon -PRON- clotted finger and upon the ghastly pool which 
      widen slowly from the crush skull of the victim . and -PRON- shine 
      upon something else which turn -PRON- heart sick and faint within 
      -PRON- -- the body of Sir Henry Baskerville ! 

      there be no chance of either of -PRON- forget that peculiar ruddy 
      tweed suit -- the very one which -PRON- have wear on the first morning that 
      -PRON- have see -PRON- in Baker Street . -PRON- catch the one clear glimpse of 
      -PRON- , and then the match flicker and go out , even as the hope have 
      go out of -PRON- soul . Holmes groan , and -PRON- face glimmer white 
      through the darkness . 

      " the brute ! the brute ! " -PRON- cry with clenched hand . " oh Holmes , -PRON- 
      shall never forgive -PRON- for have leave -PRON- to -PRON- fate . " 

      " -PRON- be more to blame than -PRON- , Watson . in order to have -PRON- case well 
      rounded and complete , -PRON- have throw away the life of -PRON- client . -PRON- be 
      the great blow which have befall -PRON- in -PRON- career . but how could -PRON- 
      know -- how could l know -- that -PRON- would risk -PRON- life alone upon the 
      moor in the face of all -PRON- warning ? " 

      " that -PRON- should have hear -PRON- scream -- -PRON- God , those screams!--and 
      yet have be unable to save -PRON- ! where be this brute of a hound 
      which drive -PRON- to -PRON- death ? -PRON- may be lurk among these rock at 
      this instant . and Stapleton , where be -PRON- ? -PRON- shall answer for this 
      deed . " 

      " -PRON- shall . -PRON- will see to that . Uncle and nephew have be 
      murder -- the one frighten to death by the very sight of a beast 
      which -PRON- think to be supernatural , the other drive to -PRON- end in 
      -PRON- wild flight to escape from -PRON- . but now -PRON- have to prove the 
      connection between the man and the beast . save from what -PRON- hear , -PRON- 
      can not even swear to the existence of the latter , since Sir Henry have 
      evidently die from the fall . but , by heaven , cunne as -PRON- be , the 
      fellow shall be in -PRON- power before another day be past ! " 

      -PRON- stand with bitter heart on either side of the mangle body , 
      overwhelm by this sudden and irrevocable disaster which have bring 
      all -PRON- long and weary labour to so piteous an end . then , as the 
      moon rise -PRON- climb to the top of the rock over which -PRON- poor 
      friend have fall , and from the summit -PRON- gaze out over the shadowy 
      moor , half silver and half gloom . far away , mile off , in the 
      direction of Grimpen , a single steady yellow light be shine . -PRON- 
      could only come from the lonely abode of the Stapletons . with a 
      bitter curse -PRON- shake -PRON- fist at -PRON- as -PRON- gaze . 

      " why should -PRON- not seize -PRON- at once ? " 

      " -PRON- case be not complete . the fellow be wary and cunning to the last 
      degree . -PRON- be not what -PRON- know , but what -PRON- can prove . if -PRON- make one 
      false move the villain may escape -PRON- yet . " 

      " what can -PRON- do ? " 

      " there will be plenty for -PRON- to do to - morrow . to - night -PRON- can only 
      perform the last office to -PRON- poor friend . " 

      together -PRON- make -PRON- way down the precipitous slope and approach 
      the body , black and clear against the silvered stone . the agony of 
      those contort limb strike -PRON- with a spasm of pain and blur -PRON- 
      eye with tear . 

      " -PRON- must send for help , Holmes ! -PRON- can not carry -PRON- all the way to 
      the Hall . good heaven , be -PRON- mad ? " 

      -PRON- have utter a cry and bent over the body . now -PRON- be dance and 
      laugh and wring -PRON- hand . Could this be -PRON- stern , self - contain 
      friend ? these be hide fire , indeed ! 

      " a beard ! a beard ! the man have a beard ! " 

      " a beard ? " 

      " -PRON- be not the baronet -- -PRON- be -- why , -PRON- be -PRON- neighbour , the convict ! " 

      with feverish haste -PRON- have turn the body over , and that drip 
      beard be point up to the cold , clear moon . there could be no 
      doubt about the beetling forehead , the sink animal eye . -PRON- be 
      indeed the same face which have glare upon -PRON- in the light of the 
      candle from over the rock -- the face of Selden , the criminal . 

      then in an instant -PRON- be all clear to -PRON- . -PRON- remember how the 
      baronet have tell -PRON- that -PRON- have hand -PRON- old wardrobe to Barrymore . 
      Barrymore have pass -PRON- on in order to help Selden in -PRON- escape . 
      boot , shirt , cap -- -PRON- be all Sir Henry 's . the tragedy be still 
      black enough , but this man have at least deserved death by the law of 
      -PRON- country . -PRON- tell Holmes how the matter stand , -PRON- heart bubble 
      over with thankfulness and joy . 

      " then the clothe have be the poor devil 's death , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be 
      clear enough that the hound have be lay on from some article of Sir 
      Henry's -- the boot which be abstract in the hotel , in all 
      probability -- and so run this man down . there be one very singular 
      thing , however : how come Selden , in the darkness , to know that the 
      hound be on -PRON- trail ? " 

      " -PRON- hear -PRON- . " 

      " to hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like this 
      convict into such a paroxysm of terror that -PRON- would risk recapture 
      by scream wildly for help . by -PRON- cry -PRON- must have run a long 
      way after -PRON- know the animal be on -PRON- track . how do -PRON- know ? " 

      " a great mystery to -PRON- be why this hound , presume that all -PRON- 
      conjecture be correct-- " 

      " -PRON- presume nothing . " 

      " well , then , why this hound should be loose to - night . -PRON- suppose that 
      -PRON- do not always run loose upon the moor . Stapleton would not let 
      -PRON- go unless -PRON- have reason to think that Sir Henry would be there . " 

      " -PRON- difficulty be the more formidable of the two , for -PRON- think that -PRON- 
      shall very shortly get an explanation of -PRON- , while -PRON- may remain 
      forever a mystery . the question now be , what shall -PRON- do with this 
      poor wretch 's body ? -PRON- can not leave -PRON- here to the fox and the 
      raven . " 

      " -PRON- suggest that -PRON- put -PRON- in one of the hut until -PRON- can communicate 
      with the police . " 

      " exactly . -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- and -PRON- could carry -PRON- so far . 
      Halloa , Watson , what be this ? -PRON- be the man -PRON- , by all that be 
      wonderful and audacious ! not a word to show -PRON- suspicion -- not a 
      word , or -PRON- plan crumble to the ground . " 

      a figure be approach -PRON- over the moor , and -PRON- see the dull red 
      glow of a cigar . the moon shine upon -PRON- , and -PRON- could distinguish the 
      dapper shape and jaunty walk of the naturalist . -PRON- stop when -PRON- 
      see -PRON- , and then come on again . 

      " why , Dr. Watson , that be not -PRON- , be -PRON- ? -PRON- be the last man that -PRON- 
      should have expect to see out on the moor at this time of night . 
      but , dear -PRON- , what be this ? somebody hurt ? not -- don't tell -PRON- that -PRON- 
      be -PRON- friend Sir Henry ! " -PRON- hurry past -PRON- and stoop over the 
      dead man . -PRON- hear a sharp intake of -PRON- breath and the cigar fall 
      from -PRON- finger . 

      " who -- who be this ? " -PRON- stammer . 

      " -PRON- be Selden , the man who escape from Princetown . " 

      Stapleton turn a ghastly face upon -PRON- , but by a supreme effort -PRON- 
      have overcome -PRON- amazement and -PRON- disappointment . -PRON- look sharply 
      from Holmes to -PRON- . 

      " dear -PRON- ! what a very shocking affair ! how do -PRON- die ? " 

      " -PRON- appear to have break -PRON- neck by fall over these rock . -PRON- 
      friend and -PRON- be stroll on the moor when -PRON- hear a cry . " 

      " -PRON- hear a cry also . that be what bring -PRON- out . -PRON- be uneasy about 
      Sir Henry . " 

      " why about Sir Henry in particular ? " -PRON- could not help ask . 

      " because -PRON- have suggest that -PRON- should come over . when -PRON- do not 
      come -PRON- be surprised , and -PRON- naturally become alarmed for -PRON- safety 
      when -PRON- hear cry upon the moor . by the way"--his eye dart again 
      from -PRON- face to holmes's--"did -PRON- hear anything else besides a cry ? " 

      " no , " say Holmes ; " do -PRON- ? " 

      " no . " 

      " what do -PRON- mean , then ? " 

      " oh , -PRON- know the story that the peasant tell about a phantom 
      hound , and so on . -PRON- be say to be hear at night upon the moor . -PRON- 
      be wonder if there be any evidence of such a sound to - night . " 

      " -PRON- hear nothing of the kind , " say I. 

      " and what be -PRON- theory of this poor fellow 's death ? " 

      " -PRON- have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have drive -PRON- off -PRON- 
      head . -PRON- have rush about the moor in a crazy state and eventually 
      fall over here and break -PRON- neck . " 

      " that seem the most reasonable theory , " say Stapleton , and -PRON- give 
      a sigh which -PRON- take to indicate -PRON- relief . " what do -PRON- think about 
      -PRON- , Mr. Sherlock Holmes ? " 

      -PRON- friend bow -PRON- compliment . 

      " -PRON- be quick at identification , " say -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- have be expect -PRON- in these part since Dr. Watson come 
      down . -PRON- be in time to see a tragedy . " 

      " yes , indeed . -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- friend 's explanation will cover 
      the fact . -PRON- will take an unpleasant remembrance back to London with 
      -PRON- to - morrow . " 

      " oh , -PRON- return to - morrow ? " 

      " that be -PRON- intention . " 

      " -PRON- hope -PRON- visit have cast some light upon those occurrence which 
      have puzzle -PRON- ? " 

      Holmes shrug -PRON- shoulder . 

      " one can not always have the success for which one hope . an 
      investigator need fact , and not legend or rumour . -PRON- have not be 
      a satisfactory case . " 

      -PRON- friend speak in -PRON- frank and most unconcerned manner . 
      Stapleton still look hard at -PRON- . then -PRON- turn to -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- would suggest carry this poor fellow to -PRON- house , but -PRON- would 
      give -PRON- sister such a fright that -PRON- do not feel justified in do 
      -PRON- . -PRON- think that if -PRON- put something over -PRON- face -PRON- will be safe 
      until morning . " 

      and so -PRON- be arrange . resist Stapleton 's offer of hospitality , 
      Holmes and -PRON- set off to Baskerville Hall , leave the naturalist to 
      return alone . look back -PRON- see the figure move slowly away over 
      the broad moor , and behind -PRON- that one black smudge on the silvered 
      slope which show where the man be lie who have come so horribly 
      to -PRON- end . 





           CHAPTER XIII 
           fix the Nets 


      " -PRON- be at close grip at last , " say Holmes as -PRON- walk together 
      across the moor . " what a nerve the fellow have ! how -PRON- pull -PRON- 
      together in the face of what must have be a paralyze shock when 
      -PRON- find that the wrong man have fall a victim to -PRON- plot . -PRON- tell 
      -PRON- in London , Watson , and -PRON- tell -PRON- now again , that -PRON- have never 
      have a foeman more worthy of -PRON- steel . " 

      " -PRON- be sorry that -PRON- have see -PRON- . " 

      " and so be -PRON- at first . but there be no get out of -PRON- . " 

      " what effect do -PRON- think -PRON- will have upon -PRON- plan now that -PRON- 
      know -PRON- be here ? " 

      " -PRON- may cause -PRON- to be more cautious , or -PRON- may drive -PRON- to 
      desperate measure at once . like most clever criminal , -PRON- may be too 
      confident in -PRON- own cleverness and imagine that -PRON- have completely 
      deceive -PRON- . " 

      " why should -PRON- not arrest -PRON- at once ? " 

      " -PRON- dear Watson , -PRON- be bear to be a man of action . -PRON- instinct 
      be always to do something energetic . but supposing , for argument 's 
      sake , that -PRON- have -PRON- arrest to - night , what on earth the well off 
      should -PRON- be for that ? -PRON- could prove nothing against -PRON- . there be 
      the devilish cunning of -PRON- ! if -PRON- be act through a human agent 
      -PRON- could get some evidence , but if -PRON- be to drag this great dog to 
      the light of day -PRON- would not help -PRON- in put a rope round the 
      neck of -PRON- master . " 

      " surely -PRON- have a case . " 

      " not a shadow of one -- only surmise and conjecture . -PRON- should be 
      laugh out of court if -PRON- come with such a story and such evidence . " 

      " there be Sir Charles 's death . " 

      " find dead without a mark upon -PRON- . -PRON- and -PRON- know that -PRON- die of 
      sheer fright , and -PRON- know also what frighten -PRON- ; but how be -PRON- to 
      get twelve stolid juryman to know -PRON- ? what sign be there of a 
      hound ? where be the mark of -PRON- fang ? of course -PRON- know that a 
      hound do not bite a dead body and that Sir Charles be dead before 
      ever the brute overtake -PRON- . but -PRON- have to prove all this , and -PRON- 
      be not in a position to do -PRON- . " 

      " well , then , to - night ? " 

      " -PRON- be not much well off to - night . again , there be no direct 
      connection between the hound and the man 's death . -PRON- never see the 
      hound . -PRON- hear -PRON- ; but -PRON- could not prove that -PRON- be run upon 
      this man 's trail . there be a complete absence of motive . no , -PRON- dear 
      fellow ; -PRON- must reconcile -PRON- to the fact that -PRON- have no case 
      at present , and that -PRON- be worth -PRON- while to run any risk in order 
      to establish one . " 

      " and how do -PRON- propose to do so ? " 

      " -PRON- have great hope of what Mrs. Laura Lyons may do for -PRON- when the 
      position of affair be make clear to -PRON- . and -PRON- have -PRON- own plan as 
      well . sufficient for to - morrow be the evil thereof ; but -PRON- hope before 
      the day be past to have the upper hand at last . " 

      -PRON- could draw nothing further from -PRON- , and -PRON- walk , lose in 
      think , as far as the Baskerville gate . 

      " be -PRON- come up ? " 

      " yes ; -PRON- see no reason for further concealment . but one last word , 
      Watson . say nothing of the hound to Sir Henry . let -PRON- think that 
      Selden 's death be as Stapleton would have -PRON- believe . -PRON- will have a 
      well nerve for the ordeal which -PRON- will have to undergo to - morrow , 
      when -PRON- be engage , if -PRON- remember -PRON- report aright , to dine with 
      these people . " 

      " and so be I. " 

      " then -PRON- must excuse -PRON- and -PRON- must go alone . that will be 
      easily arrange . and now , if -PRON- be too late for dinner , -PRON- think that 
      -PRON- be both ready for -PRON- supper . " 

      Sir Henry be more pleased than surprised to see Sherlock Holmes , for 
      -PRON- have for some day be expect that recent event would bring 
      -PRON- down from London . -PRON- do raise -PRON- eyebrow , however , when -PRON- 
      find that -PRON- friend have neither any luggage nor any explanation for 
      -PRON- absence . between -PRON- -PRON- soon supply -PRON- want , and then over a 
      belate supper -PRON- explain to the baronet as much of -PRON- experience 
      as -PRON- seem desirable that -PRON- should know . but first -PRON- have the 
      unpleasant duty of break the news to Barrymore and -PRON- wife . to 
      -PRON- -PRON- may have be an unmitigated relief , but -PRON- weep bitterly in 
      -PRON- apron . to all the world -PRON- be the man of violence , half animal 
      and half demon ; but to -PRON- -PRON- always remain the little wilful boy 
      of -PRON- own girlhood , the child who have cling to -PRON- hand . evil indeed 
      be the man who have not one woman to mourn -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- have be mope in the house all day since Watson go off in the 
      morning , " say the baronet . " -PRON- guess -PRON- should have some credit , for -PRON- 
      have keep -PRON- promise . if -PRON- have not swear not to go about alone -PRON- may 
      have have a more lively evening , for -PRON- have a message from Stapleton 
      ask -PRON- over there . " 

      " -PRON- have no doubt that -PRON- would have have a more lively evening , " say 
      Holmes drily . " by the way , -PRON- do not suppose -PRON- appreciate that -PRON- 
      have be mourn over -PRON- as have break -PRON- neck ? " 

      Sir Henry open -PRON- eye . " how be that ? " 

      " this poor wretch be dress in -PRON- clothe . -PRON- fear -PRON- servant 
      who give -PRON- to -PRON- may get into trouble with the police . " 

      " that be unlikely . there be no mark on any of -PRON- , as far as -PRON- 
      know . " 

      " that be lucky for -PRON- -- in fact , -PRON- be lucky for all of -PRON- , since -PRON- 
      be all on the wrong side of the law in this matter . -PRON- be not sure 
      that as a conscientious detective -PRON- first duty be not to arrest the 
      whole household . Watson 's report be most incriminate document . " 

      " but how about the case ? " ask the baronet . " have -PRON- make anything 
      out of the tangle ? -PRON- do not know that Watson and -PRON- be much the wise 
      since -PRON- come down . " 

      " -PRON- think that -PRON- shall be in a position to make the situation rather 
      more clear to -PRON- before long . -PRON- have be an exceedingly difficult 
      and most complicated business . there be several point upon which -PRON- 
      still want light -- but -PRON- be come all the same . " 

      " -PRON- have have one experience , as Watson have no doubt tell -PRON- . -PRON- hear 
      the hound on the moor , so -PRON- can swear that -PRON- be not all empty 
      superstition . -PRON- have something to do with dog when -PRON- be out West , 
      and -PRON- know one when -PRON- hear one . if -PRON- can muzzle that one and put 
      -PRON- on a chain -PRON- will be ready to swear -PRON- be the great detective 
      of all time . " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- will muzzle -PRON- and chain -PRON- all right if -PRON- will give 
      -PRON- -PRON- help . " 

      " whatever -PRON- tell -PRON- to do -PRON- will do . " 

      " very good ; and -PRON- will ask -PRON- also to do -PRON- blindly , without always 
      ask the reason . " 

      " just as -PRON- like . " 

      " if -PRON- will do this -PRON- think the chance be that -PRON- little problem 
      will soon be solve . -PRON- have no doubt-- " 

      -PRON- stop suddenly and stare fixedly up over -PRON- head into the air . 
      the lamp beat upon -PRON- face , and so intent be -PRON- and so still that 
      -PRON- may have be that of a clear - cut classical statue , a 
      personification of alertness and expectation . 

      " what be -PRON- ? " -PRON- both cry . 

      -PRON- could see as -PRON- look down that -PRON- be repress some internal 
      emotion . -PRON- feature be still compose , but -PRON- eye shine with 
      amuse exultation . 

      " excuse the admiration of a connoisseur , " say -PRON- as -PRON- wave -PRON- 
      hand towards the line of portrait which cover the opposite wall . 
      " Watson will not allow that -PRON- know anything of art , but that be mere 
      jealousy , because -PRON- view upon the subject differ . now , these be a 
      really very fine series of portrait . " 

      " well , -PRON- be glad to hear -PRON- say so , " say Sir Henry , glance with 
      some surprise at -PRON- friend . " -PRON- do not pretend to know much about these 
      thing , and -PRON- would be a well judge of a horse or a steer than of a 
      picture . -PRON- do not know that -PRON- find time for such thing . " 

      " -PRON- know what be good when -PRON- see -PRON- , and -PRON- see -PRON- now . that be a 
      Kneller , -PRON- will swear , that lady in the blue silk over yonder , and the 
      stout gentleman with the wig ought to be a Reynolds . -PRON- be all 
      family portrait , -PRON- presume ? " 

      " every one . " 

      " do -PRON- know the name ? " 

      " Barrymore have be coach -PRON- in -PRON- , and -PRON- think -PRON- can say -PRON- 
      lesson fairly well . " 

      " who be the gentleman with the telescope ? " 

      " that be Rear - Admiral Baskerville , who serve under Rodney in the 
      West Indies . the man with the blue coat and the roll of paper be Sir 
      William Baskerville , who be Chairman of Committees of the House of 
      Commons under Pitt . " 

      " and this Cavalier opposite to -PRON- -- the one with the black velvet and 
      the lace ? " 

      " ah , -PRON- have a right to know about -PRON- . that be the cause of all the 
      mischief , the wicked Hugo , who start the Hound of the Baskervilles . 
      -PRON- be not likely to forget -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- gaze with interest and some surprise upon the portrait . 

      " dear -PRON- ! " say Holmes , " -PRON- seem a quiet , meek - mannered man enough , 
      but -PRON- dare say that there be a lurk devil in -PRON- eye . -PRON- have 
      picture -PRON- as a more robust and ruffianly person . " 

      " there be no doubt about the authenticity , for the name and the date , 
      1647 , be on the back of the canvas . " 

      Holmes say little more , but the picture of the old roysterer seem 
      to have a fascination for -PRON- , and -PRON- eye be continually fix 
      upon -PRON- during supper . -PRON- be not until later , when Sir Henry have 
      go to -PRON- room , that -PRON- be able to follow the trend of -PRON- 
      thought . -PRON- lead -PRON- back into the banqueting - hall , -PRON- bedroom candle 
      in -PRON- hand , and -PRON- hold -PRON- up against the time - stain portrait on 
      the wall . 

      " do -PRON- see anything there ? " 

      -PRON- look at the broad plume hat , the curl love - lock , the white 
      lace collar , and the straight , severe face which be frame between 
      -PRON- . -PRON- be not a brutal countenance , but -PRON- be prim , hard , and 
      stern , with a firm - set , thin - lip mouth , and a coldly intolerant 
      eye . 

      " be -PRON- like anyone -PRON- know ? " 

      " there be something of Sir Henry about the jaw . " 

      " just a suggestion , perhaps . but wait an instant ! " -PRON- stand upon a 
      chair , and , hold up the light in -PRON- left hand , -PRON- curve -PRON- 
      right arm over the broad hat and round the long ringlet . 

      " good heaven ! " -PRON- cry , in amazement . 

      the face of Stapleton have spring out of the canvas . 

      " ha , -PRON- see -PRON- now . -PRON- eye have be train to examine face and 
      not -PRON- trimming . -PRON- be the first quality of a criminal 
      investigator that -PRON- should see through a disguise . " 

      " but this be marvellous . -PRON- may be -PRON- portrait . " 

      " yes , -PRON- be an interesting instance of a throwback , which appear to 
      be both physical and spiritual . a study of family portrait be enough 
      to convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation . the fellow be a 
      Baskerville -- that be evident . " 

      " with design upon the succession . " 

      " exactly . this chance of the picture have supply -PRON- with one of -PRON- 
      most obvious miss link . -PRON- have -PRON- , Watson , -PRON- have -PRON- , and -PRON- 
      dare swear that before to - morrow night -PRON- will be flutter in -PRON- 
      net as helpless as one of -PRON- own butterfly . a pin , a cork , and a 
      card , and -PRON- add -PRON- to the Baker Street collection ! " -PRON- burst into 
      one of -PRON- rare fit of laughter as -PRON- turn away from the picture . 
      -PRON- have not hear -PRON- laugh often , and -PRON- have always bode ill to 
      somebody . 

      -PRON- be up betime in the morning , but Holmes be afoot earlier still , 
      for -PRON- see -PRON- as -PRON- dress , come up the drive . 

      " yes , -PRON- should have a full day to - day , " -PRON- remark , and -PRON- rub 
      -PRON- hand with the joy of action . " the net be all in place , and the 
      drag be about to begin . -PRON- will know before the day be out whether -PRON- 
      have catch -PRON- big , lean - jawed pike , or whether -PRON- have get through 
      the mesh . " 

      " have -PRON- be on the moor already ? " 

      " -PRON- have send a report from Grimpen to Princetown as to the death of 
      Selden . -PRON- think -PRON- can promise that none of -PRON- will be trouble in 
      the matter . and -PRON- have also communicate with -PRON- faithful cartwright , 
      who would certainly have pine away at the door of -PRON- hut , as a dog 
      do at -PRON- master 's grave , if -PRON- have not set -PRON- mind at rest about 
      -PRON- safety . " 

      " what be the next move ? " 

      " to see Sir Henry . ah , here -PRON- be ! " 

      " good morning , Holmes , " say the baronet . " -PRON- look like a general 
      who be plan a battle with -PRON- chief of the staff . " 

      " that be the exact situation . Watson be ask for order . " 

      " and so do I. " 

      " very good . -PRON- be engage , as -PRON- understand , to dine with -PRON- 
      friend the stapleton to - night . " 

      " -PRON- hope that -PRON- will come also . -PRON- be very hospitable people , and 
      -PRON- be sure that -PRON- would be very glad to see -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- fear that Watson and -PRON- must go to London . " 

      " to London ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- think that -PRON- should be more useful there at the present 
      juncture . " 

      the baronet 's face perceptibly lengthen . 

      " -PRON- hope that -PRON- be go to see -PRON- through this business . the 
      Hall and the moor be not very pleasant place when one be alone . " 

      " -PRON- dear fellow , -PRON- must trust -PRON- implicitly and do exactly what -PRON- 
      tell -PRON- . -PRON- can tell -PRON- friend that -PRON- should have be happy to 
      have come with -PRON- , but that urgent business require -PRON- to be in 
      town . -PRON- hope very soon to return to Devonshire . Will -PRON- remember to 
      give -PRON- that message ? " 

      " if -PRON- insist upon -PRON- . " 

      " there be no alternative , -PRON- assure -PRON- . " 

      -PRON- see by the baronet 's clouded brow that -PRON- be deeply hurt by what 
      -PRON- regard as -PRON- desertion . 

      " when do -PRON- desire to go ? " -PRON- ask coldly . 

      " immediately after breakfast . -PRON- will drive in to Coombe Tracey , but 
      Watson will leave -PRON- thing as a pledge that -PRON- will come back to 
      -PRON- . Watson , -PRON- will send a note to Stapleton to tell -PRON- that -PRON- 
      regret that -PRON- can not come . " 

      " -PRON- have a good mind to go to London with -PRON- , " say the baronet . " why 
      should -PRON- stay here alone ? " 

      " because -PRON- be -PRON- post of duty . because -PRON- give -PRON- -PRON- word that 
      -PRON- would do as -PRON- be tell , and -PRON- tell -PRON- to stay . " 

      " all right , then , -PRON- will stay . " 

      " one more direction ! -PRON- wish -PRON- to drive to Merripit House . send back 
      -PRON- trap , however , and let -PRON- know that -PRON- intend to walk home . " 

      " to walk across the moor ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " but that be the very thing which -PRON- have so often caution -PRON- not 
      to do . " 

      " this time -PRON- may do -PRON- with safety . if -PRON- have not every confidence 
      in -PRON- nerve and courage -PRON- would not suggest -PRON- , but -PRON- be essential 
      that -PRON- should do -PRON- . " 

      " then -PRON- will do -PRON- . " 

      " and as -PRON- value -PRON- life do not go across the moor in any 
      direction save along the straight path which lead from Merripit 
      House to the Grimpen Road , and be -PRON- natural way home . " 

      " -PRON- will do just what -PRON- say . " 

      " very good . -PRON- should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as 
      possible , so as to reach London in the afternoon . " 

      -PRON- be much astounded by this programme , though -PRON- remember that 
      Holmes have say to Stapleton on the night before that -PRON- visit would 
      terminate next day . -PRON- have not cross -PRON- mind , however , that -PRON- 
      would wish -PRON- to go with -PRON- , nor could -PRON- understand how -PRON- could 
      both be absent at a moment which -PRON- -PRON- declare to be critical . 
      there be nothing for -PRON- , however , but implicit obedience ; so -PRON- bid 
      good - bye to -PRON- rueful friend , and a couple of hour afterwards -PRON- 
      be at the station of Coombe Tracey and have dispatch the trap upon 
      -PRON- return journey . a small boy be wait upon the platform . 

      " any order , sir ? " 

      " -PRON- will take this train to town , Cartwright . the moment -PRON- arrive 
      -PRON- will send a wire to Sir Henry Baskerville , in -PRON- name , to say 
      that if -PRON- find the pocket - book which -PRON- have drop -PRON- be to send 
      -PRON- by register post to Baker Street . " 

      " yes , sir . " 

      " and ask at the station office if there be a message for -PRON- . " 

      the boy return with a telegram , which Holmes hand to -PRON- . -PRON- run : 

      wire receive . come down with unsigned warrant . arrive five - forty . 
      lestrade . 

      " that be in answer to mine of this morning . -PRON- be the good of the 
      professional , -PRON- think , and -PRON- may need -PRON- assistance . now , Watson , 
      -PRON- think that -PRON- can not employ -PRON- time better than by call upon 
      -PRON- acquaintance , Mrs. Laura Lyons . " 

      -PRON- plan of campaign be begin to be evident . -PRON- would use the 
      baronet in order to convince the stapleton that -PRON- be really go , 
      while -PRON- should actually return at the instant when -PRON- be likely to 
      be need . that telegram from London , if mention by Sir Henry to 
      the Stapletons , must remove the last suspicion from -PRON- mind . 
      already -PRON- seem to see -PRON- net draw closer around that 
      lean - jawed pike . 

      Mrs. Laura Lyons be in -PRON- office , and Sherlock Holmes open -PRON- 
      interview with a frankness and directness which considerably amazed 
      -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- be investigate the circumstance which attend the death of the 
      late Sir Charles Baskerville , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- friend here , Dr. Watson , 
      have inform -PRON- of what -PRON- have communicate , and also of what -PRON- 
      have withhold in connection with that matter . " 

      " what have -PRON- withhold ? " -PRON- ask defiantly . 

      " -PRON- have confess that -PRON- ask Sir Charles to be at the gate at 
      ten o'clock . -PRON- know that that be the place and hour of -PRON- death . 
      -PRON- have withhold what the connection be between these event . " 

      " there be no connection . " 

      " in that case the coincidence must indeed be an extraordinary one . 
      but -PRON- think that -PRON- shall succeed in establish a connection after 
      all . -PRON- wish to be perfectly frank with -PRON- , Mrs. Lyons . -PRON- regard 
      this case as one of murder , and the evidence may implicate not only 
      -PRON- friend Mr. Stapleton , but -PRON- wife as well . " 

      the lady spring from -PRON- chair . 

      " -PRON- wife ! " -PRON- cry . 

      " the fact be no longer a secret . the person who have pass for -PRON- 
      sister be really -PRON- wife . " 

      Mrs. Lyons have resume -PRON- seat . -PRON- hand be grasp the arm of 
      -PRON- chair , and -PRON- see that the pink nail have turn white with the 
      pressure of -PRON- grip . 

      " -PRON- wife ! " -PRON- say again . " -PRON- wife ! -PRON- be not a married man . " 

      Sherlock Holmes shrug -PRON- shoulder . 

      " prove -PRON- to -PRON- ! prove -PRON- to -PRON- ! and if -PRON- can do so-- ! " the fierce 
      flash of -PRON- eye say more than any word . 

      " -PRON- have come prepared to do so , " say Holmes , draw several paper 
      from -PRON- pocket . " here be a photograph of the couple take in York 
      four year ago . -PRON- be indorse ' Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur , ' but -PRON- will 
      have no difficulty in recognize -PRON- , and -PRON- also , if -PRON- know -PRON- 
      by sight . here be three write description by trustworthy 
      witness of Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur , who at that time keep St. 
      Oliver 's private school . read -PRON- and see if -PRON- can doubt the 
      identity of these people . " 

      -PRON- glance at -PRON- , and then look up at -PRON- with the set , rigid 
      face of a desperate woman . 

      " Mr. Holmes , " -PRON- say , " this man have offer -PRON- marriage on 
      condition that -PRON- could get a divorce from -PRON- husband . -PRON- have lie to 
      -PRON- , the villain , in every conceivable way . not one word of truth have 
      -PRON- ever tell -PRON- . and why -- why ? -PRON- imagine that all be for -PRON- own 
      sake . but now -PRON- see that -PRON- be never anything but a tool in -PRON- 
      hand . why should -PRON- preserve faith with -PRON- who never keep any with 
      -PRON- ? why should -PRON- try to shield -PRON- from the consequence of -PRON- own 
      wicked act ? ask -PRON- what -PRON- like , and there be nothing which -PRON- shall 
      hold back . one thing -PRON- swear to -PRON- , and that be that when -PRON- write 
      the letter -PRON- never dream of any harm to the old gentleman , who have 
      be -PRON- kind friend . " 

      " -PRON- entirely believe -PRON- , madam , " say Sherlock Holmes . " the recital 
      of these event must be very painful to -PRON- , and perhaps -PRON- will make 
      -PRON- easy if -PRON- tell -PRON- what occur , and -PRON- can check -PRON- if -PRON- make 
      any material mistake . the sending of this letter be suggest to -PRON- 
      by Stapleton ? " 

      " -PRON- dictate -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- presume that the reason -PRON- give be that -PRON- would receive help 
      from Sir Charles for the legal expense connect with -PRON- divorce ? " 

      " exactly . " 

      " and then after -PRON- have send the letter -PRON- dissuade -PRON- from keep 
      the appointment ? " 

      " -PRON- tell -PRON- that -PRON- would hurt -PRON- self - respect that any other man 
      should find the money for such an object , and that though -PRON- be a 
      poor man -PRON- -PRON- would devote -PRON- last penny to remove the 
      obstacle which divide -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- appear to be a very consistent character . and then -PRON- hear 
      nothing until -PRON- read the report of the death in the paper ? " 

      " no . " 

      " and -PRON- make -PRON- swear to say nothing about -PRON- appointment with Sir 
      Charles ? " 

      " -PRON- do . -PRON- say that the death be a very mysterious one , and that -PRON- 
      should certainly be suspect if the fact come out . -PRON- frighten -PRON- 
      into remain silent . " 

      " quite so . but -PRON- have -PRON- suspicion ? " 

      -PRON- hesitate and look down . 

      " -PRON- know -PRON- , " -PRON- say . " but if -PRON- have keep faith with -PRON- -PRON- should 
      always have do so with -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- think that on the whole -PRON- have have a fortunate escape , " say 
      Sherlock Holmes . " -PRON- have have -PRON- in -PRON- power and -PRON- know -PRON- , and 
      yet -PRON- be alive . -PRON- have be walk for some month very near to 
      the edge of a precipice . -PRON- must wish -PRON- good - morning now , Mrs. 
      Lyons , and -PRON- be probable that -PRON- will very shortly hear from -PRON- 
      again . " 

      " -PRON- case become rounded off , and difficulty after difficulty thin 
      away in front of -PRON- , " say Holmes as -PRON- stand wait for the arrival 
      of the express from town . " -PRON- shall soon be in the position of be 
      able to put into a single connected narrative one of the most 
      singular and sensational crime of modern time . student of 
      criminology will remember the analogous incident in Godno , in Little 
      Russia , in the year ' 66 , and of course there be the Anderson murder 
      in North Carolina , but this case possess some feature which be 
      entirely -PRON- own . even now -PRON- have no clear case against this very 
      wily man . but -PRON- shall be very much surprised if -PRON- be not clear 
      enough before -PRON- go to bed this night . " 

      the London express come roar into the station , and a small , wiry 
      bulldog of a man have spring from a first - class carriage . -PRON- all three 
      shake hand , and -PRON- see at once from the reverential way in which 
      Lestrade gaze at -PRON- companion that -PRON- have learn a good deal since 
      the day when -PRON- have first work together . -PRON- could well remember 
      the scorn which the theory of the reasoner use then to excite in 
      the practical man . 

      " anything good ? " -PRON- ask . 

      " the big thing for year , " say Holmes . " -PRON- have two hour before 
      -PRON- need think of start . -PRON- think -PRON- may employ -PRON- in get some 
      dinner and then , Lestrade , -PRON- will take the London fog out of -PRON- 
      throat by give -PRON- a breath of the pure night air of Dartmoor . 
      never be there ? ah , well , -PRON- do not suppose -PRON- will forget -PRON- 
      first visit . " 





           CHAPTER XIV 
           the Hound of the Baskervilles 


      one of Sherlock Holmes 's defect -- if , indeed , one may call -PRON- a 
      defect -- be that -PRON- be exceedingly loath to communicate -PRON- full 
      plan to any other person until the instant of -PRON- fulfilment . 
      partly -PRON- come no doubt from -PRON- own masterful nature , which love to 
      dominate and surprise those who be around -PRON- . partly also from -PRON- 
      professional caution , which urge -PRON- never to take any chance . the 
      result , however , be very try for those who be act as -PRON- 
      agent and assistant . -PRON- have often suffer under -PRON- , but never more 
      so than during that long drive in the darkness . the great ordeal be 
      in front of -PRON- ; at last -PRON- be about to make -PRON- final effort , and 
      yet Holmes have say nothing , and -PRON- could only surmise what -PRON- course 
      of action would be . -PRON- nerve thrill with anticipation when at last 
      the cold wind upon -PRON- face and the dark , void space on either side 
      of the narrow road tell -PRON- that -PRON- be back upon the moor once 
      again . every stride of the horse and every turn of the wheel be 
      take -PRON- nearer to -PRON- supreme adventure . 

      -PRON- conversation be hamper by the presence of the driver of the 
      hire wagonette , so that -PRON- be force to talk of trivial matter 
      when -PRON- nerve be tense with emotion and anticipation . -PRON- be a 
      relief to -PRON- , after that unnatural restraint , when -PRON- at last pass 
      Frankland 's house and know that -PRON- be draw near to the Hall and 
      to the scene of action . -PRON- do not drive up to the door but get down 
      near the gate of the avenue . the wagonette be pay off and order 
      to return to Coombe Tracey forthwith , while -PRON- start to walk to 
      Merripit House . 

      " be -PRON- armed , Lestrade ? " 

      the little detective smile . 

      " as long as -PRON- have -PRON- trouser -PRON- have a hip - pocket , and as long as -PRON- 
      have -PRON- hip - pocket -PRON- have something in -PRON- . " 

      " good ! -PRON- friend and -PRON- be also ready for emergency . " 

      " -PRON- be mighty close about this affair , Mr. Holmes . what be the game 
      now ? " 

      " a waiting game . " 

      " -PRON- word , -PRON- do not seem a very cheerful place , " say the detective 
      with a shiver , glance round -PRON- at the gloomy slope of the hill 
      and at the huge lake of fog which lie over the Grimpen Mire . " -PRON- see 
      the light of a house ahead of -PRON- . " 

      " that be Merripit House and the end of -PRON- journey . -PRON- must request 
      -PRON- to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper . " 

      -PRON- move cautiously along the track as if -PRON- be bind for the 
      house , but Holmes halt -PRON- when -PRON- be about two hundred yard from 
      -PRON- . 

      " this will do , " say -PRON- . " these rock upon the right make an 
      admirable screen . " 

      " -PRON- be to wait here ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- shall make -PRON- little ambush here . get into this hollow , 
      lestrade . -PRON- have be inside the house , have -PRON- not , Watson ? Can 
      -PRON- tell the position of the room ? what be those lattice window 
      at this end ? " 

      " -PRON- think -PRON- be the kitchen window . " 

      " and the one beyond , which shine so brightly ? " 

      " that be certainly the dining - room . " 

      " the blind be up . -PRON- know the lie of the land best . creep forward 
      quietly and see what -PRON- be do -- but for heaven 's sake do not let 
      -PRON- know that -PRON- be watch ! " 

      -PRON- tiptoe down the path and stoop behind the low wall which 
      surround the stunted orchard . creep in -PRON- shadow -PRON- reach a 
      point whence -PRON- could look straight through the uncurtained window . 

      there be only two man in the room , Sir Henry and Stapleton . -PRON- 
      sit with -PRON- profile towards -PRON- on either side of the round table . 
      both of -PRON- be smoke cigar , and coffee and wine be in front 
      of -PRON- . Stapleton be talk with animation , but the baronet look 
      pale and distrait . perhaps the thought of that lonely walk across the 
      ill - omen moor be weigh heavily upon -PRON- mind . 

      as -PRON- watch -PRON- Stapleton rise and leave the room , while Sir Henry 
      fill -PRON- glass again and lean back in -PRON- chair , puff at -PRON- 
      cigar . -PRON- hear the creak of a door and the crisp sound of boot upon 
      gravel . the step pass along the path on the other side of the wall 
      under which -PRON- crouch . look over , -PRON- see the naturalist pause at 
      the door of an out - house in the corner of the orchard . a key turn 
      in a lock , and as -PRON- pass in there be a curious scuffle noise 
      from within . -PRON- be only a minute or so inside , and then -PRON- hear the 
      key turn once more and -PRON- pass -PRON- and re - enter the house . -PRON- see 
      -PRON- rejoin -PRON- guest , and -PRON- creep quietly back to where -PRON- companion 
      be wait to tell -PRON- what -PRON- have see . 

      " -PRON- say , Watson , that the lady be not there ? " Holmes ask , when -PRON- 
      have finish -PRON- report . 

      " no . " 

      " where can -PRON- be , then , since there be no light in any other room 
      except the kitchen ? " 

      " -PRON- can not think where -PRON- be . " 

      -PRON- have say that over the great Grimpen Mire there hang a dense , 
      white fog . -PRON- be drift slowly in -PRON- direction , and bank -PRON- 
      up like a wall on that side of -PRON- , low , but thick and well define . 
      the moon shine on -PRON- , and -PRON- look like a great shimmer 
      ice - field , with the head of the distant tor as rock bear upon -PRON- 
      surface . Holmes 's face be turn towards -PRON- , and -PRON- mutter 
      impatiently as -PRON- watch -PRON- sluggish drift . 

      " -PRON- be move towards -PRON- , Watson . " 

      " be that serious ? " 

      " very serious , indeed -- the one thing upon earth which could have 
      disarrange -PRON- plan . -PRON- can not be very long , now . -PRON- be already ten 
      o'clock . -PRON- success and even -PRON- life may depend upon -PRON- come out 
      before the fog be over the path . " 

      the night be clear and fine above -PRON- . the star shine cold and 
      bright , while a half - moon bathe the whole scene in a soft , uncertain 
      light . before -PRON- lie the dark bulk of the house , -PRON- serrated roof 
      and bristle chimney hard outline against the silver - spangle sky . 
      broad bar of golden light from the low window stretch across 
      the orchard and the moor . one of -PRON- be suddenly shut off . the 
      servant have leave the kitchen . there only remain the lamp in the 
      dining - room where the two man , the murderous host and the unconscious 
      guest , still chat over -PRON- cigar . 

      every minute that white woolly plain which cover one half of the 
      moor be drift closer and closer to the house . already the first 
      thin wisps of -PRON- be curl across the golden square of the light 
      window . the farth wall of the orchard be already invisible , and 
      the tree be stand out of a swirl of white vapour . as -PRON- watch 
      -PRON- the fog - wreath come crawl round both corner of the house and 
      roll slowly into one dense bank , on which the upper floor and the 
      roof float like a strange ship upon a shadowy sea . Holmes strike 
      -PRON- hand passionately upon the rock in front of -PRON- and stamp -PRON- 
      foot in -PRON- impatience . 

      " if -PRON- be not out in a quarter of an hour the path will be cover . in 
      half an hour -PRON- will not be able to see -PRON- hand in front of -PRON- . " 

      " Shall -PRON- move farther back upon high ground ? " 

      " yes , -PRON- think -PRON- would be as well . " 

      so as the fog - bank flow onward -PRON- fall back before -PRON- until -PRON- be 
      half a mile from the house , and still that dense white sea , with the 
      moon silver -PRON- upper edge , sweep slowly and inexorably on . 

      " -PRON- be go too far , " say Holmes . " -PRON- dare not take the chance of 
      -PRON- being overtake before -PRON- can reach -PRON- . at all cost -PRON- must hold 
      -PRON- ground where -PRON- be . " -PRON- drop on -PRON- knee and clap -PRON- ear 
      to the ground . " thank God , -PRON- think that -PRON- hear -PRON- come . " 

      a sound of quick step break the silence of the moor . crouch among 
      the stone -PRON- stare intently at the silver - tip bank in front of 
      -PRON- . the step grow louder , and through the fog , as through a curtain , 
      there step the man whom -PRON- be await . -PRON- look round -PRON- in 
      surprise as -PRON- emerge into the clear , starlit night . then -PRON- come 
      swiftly along the path , pass close to where -PRON- lay , and go on up 
      the long slope behind -PRON- . as -PRON- walk -PRON- glance continually over 
      either shoulder , like a man who be ill at ease . 

      " Hist ! " cry Holmes , and -PRON- hear the sharp click of a cocking 
      pistol . " look out ! -PRON- be come ! " 

      there be a thin , crisp , continuous patter from somewhere in the 
      heart of that crawling bank . the cloud be within fifty yard of 
      where -PRON- lay , and -PRON- glare at -PRON- , all three , uncertain what horror 
      be about to break from the heart of -PRON- . -PRON- be at Holmes 's elbow , and 
      -PRON- glance for an instant at -PRON- face . -PRON- be pale and exultant , -PRON- 
      eye shine brightly in the moonlight . but suddenly -PRON- start 
      forward in a rigid , fix stare , and -PRON- lip part in amazement . at 
      the same instant Lestrade give a yell of terror and throw -PRON- 
      face downward upon the ground . -PRON- spring to -PRON- foot , -PRON- inert hand 
      grasp -PRON- pistol , -PRON- mind paralyze by the dreadful shape which have 
      spring out upon -PRON- from the shadow of the fog . a hound -PRON- be , an 
      enormous coal - black hound , but not such a hound as mortal eye have 
      ever see . fire burst from -PRON- open mouth , -PRON- eye glow with a 
      smouldering glare , -PRON- muzzle and hackle and dewlap be outline in 
      flicker flame . never in the delirious dream of a disorder brain 
      could anything more savage , more appalling , more hellish be conceive 
      than that dark form and savage face which break upon -PRON- out of the 
      wall of fog . 

      with long bound the huge black creature be leap down the track , 
      follow hard upon the footstep of -PRON- friend . so paralyzed be -PRON- 
      by the apparition that -PRON- allow -PRON- to pass before -PRON- have recover 
      -PRON- nerve . then Holmes and -PRON- both fire together , and the creature 
      give a hideous howl , which show that one at least have hit -PRON- . -PRON- 
      do not pause , however , but bound onward . far away on the path -PRON- 
      see Sir Henry look back , -PRON- face white in the moonlight , -PRON- 
      hand raise in horror , glare helplessly at the frightful thing 
      which be hunt -PRON- down . 

      but that cry of pain from the hound have blow all -PRON- fear to the 
      wind . if -PRON- be vulnerable -PRON- be mortal , and if -PRON- could wound -PRON- 
      -PRON- could kill -PRON- . never have -PRON- see a man run as Holmes run that 
      night . -PRON- be reckon fleet of foot , but -PRON- outpace -PRON- as much as -PRON- 
      outpace the little professional . in front of -PRON- as -PRON- fly up the 
      track -PRON- hear scream after scream from Sir Henry and the deep roar 
      of the hound . -PRON- be in time to see the beast spring upon -PRON- victim , 
      hurl -PRON- to the ground , and worry at -PRON- throat . but the next instant 
      Holmes have empty five barrel of -PRON- revolver into the creature 's 
      flank . with a last howl of agony and a vicious snap in the air , -PRON- 
      roll upon -PRON- back , four foot paw furiously , and then fall limp 
      upon -PRON- side . -PRON- stoop , pant , and press -PRON- pistol to the 
      dreadful , shimmer head , but -PRON- be useless to press the trigger . 
      the giant hound be dead . 

      Sir Henry lie insensible where -PRON- have fall . -PRON- tear away -PRON- 
      collar , and Holmes breathe a prayer of gratitude when -PRON- see that 
      there be no sign of a wound and that the rescue have be in time . 
      already -PRON- friend 's eyelid shiver and -PRON- make a feeble effort to 
      move . Lestrade thrust -PRON- brandy - flask between the baronet 's tooth , 
      and two frightened eye be look up at -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- God ! " -PRON- whisper . " what be -PRON- ? what , in heaven 's name , be 
      -PRON- ? " 

      " -PRON- be dead , whatever -PRON- be , " say Holmes . " -PRON- have lay the family 
      ghost once and forever . " 

      in mere size and strength -PRON- be a terrible creature which be lie 
      stretch before -PRON- . -PRON- be not a pure bloodhound and -PRON- be not a 
      pure mastiff ; but -PRON- appear to be a combination of the two -- gaunt , 
      savage , and as large as a small lioness . even now , in the stillness 
      of death , the huge jaw seem to be drip with a bluish flame and 
      the small , deep - set , cruel eye be ring with fire . -PRON- place -PRON- 
      hand upon the glowing muzzle , and as -PRON- hold -PRON- up -PRON- own finger 
      smoulder and gleam in the darkness . 

      " Phosphorus , " -PRON- say . 

      " a cunning preparation of -PRON- , " say Holmes , sniff at the dead 
      animal . " there be no smell which may have interfere with -PRON- power 
      of scent . -PRON- owe -PRON- a deep apology , Sir Henry , for have expose 
      -PRON- to this fright . -PRON- be prepare for a hound , but not for such a 
      creature as this . and the fog give -PRON- little time to receive -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- have save -PRON- life . " 

      " have first endanger -PRON- . be -PRON- strong enough to stand ? " 

      " give -PRON- another mouthful of that brandy and -PRON- shall be ready for 
      anything . so ! now , if -PRON- will help -PRON- up . what do -PRON- propose to 
      do ? " 

      " to leave -PRON- here . -PRON- be not fit for further adventure to - night . 
      if -PRON- will wait , one or other of -PRON- will go back with -PRON- to the 
      Hall . " 

      -PRON- try to stagger to -PRON- foot ; but -PRON- be still ghastly pale and 
      tremble in every limb . -PRON- help -PRON- to a rock , where -PRON- sit 
      shiver with -PRON- face bury in -PRON- hand . 

      " -PRON- must leave -PRON- now , " say Holmes . " the rest of -PRON- work must be 
      do , and every moment be of importance . -PRON- have -PRON- case , and now -PRON- 
      only want -PRON- man . 

      " -PRON- be a thousand to one against -PRON- find -PRON- at the house , " -PRON- 
      continue as -PRON- retrace -PRON- step swiftly down the path . " those 
      shot must have tell -PRON- that the game be up . " 

      " -PRON- be some distance off , and this fog may have deaden -PRON- . " 

      " -PRON- follow the hound to call -PRON- off -- of that -PRON- may be certain . 
      no , no , -PRON- be go by this time ! but -PRON- will search the house and make 
      sure . " 

      the front door be open , so -PRON- rush in and hurry from room to 
      room to the amazement of a doddering old manservant , who meet -PRON- in 
      the passage . there be no light save in the dining - room , but Holmes 
      catch up the lamp and leave no corner of the house unexplore . no 
      sign could -PRON- see of the man whom -PRON- be chase . on the upper 
      floor , however , one of the bedroom door be lock . 

      " there be someone in here , " cry Lestrade . " -PRON- can hear a movement . 
      open this door ! " 

      a faint moaning and rustling come from within . Holmes strike the door 
      just over the lock with the flat of -PRON- foot and -PRON- fly open . Pistol 
      in hand , -PRON- all three rush into the room . 

      but there be no sign within -PRON- of that desperate and defiant villain 
      whom -PRON- expect to see . instead -PRON- be face by an object so 
      strange and so unexpected that -PRON- stand for a moment stare at -PRON- in 
      amazement . 

      the room have be fashion into a small museum , and the wall be 
      line by a number of glass - top case full of that collection of 
      butterfly and moth the formation of which have be the relaxation 
      of this complex and dangerous man . in the centre of this room there 
      be an upright beam , which have be place at some period as a 
      support for the old worm - eat baulk of timber which span the 
      roof . to this post a figure be tie , so swathed and muffle in the 
      sheet which have be use to secure -PRON- that one could not for the 
      moment tell whether -PRON- be that of a man or a woman . one towel pass 
      round the throat and be secure at the back of the pillar . another 
      cover the low part of the face , and over -PRON- two dark eye -- eye 
      full of grief and shame and a dreadful questioning -- stare back at 
      -PRON- . in a minute -PRON- have tear off the gag , unswathe the bond , and 
      Mrs. Stapleton sink upon the floor in front of -PRON- . as -PRON- beautiful 
      head fall upon -PRON- chest -PRON- see the clear red weal of a whiplash 
      across -PRON- neck . 

      " the brute ! " cry Holmes . " here , Lestrade , -PRON- brandy - bottle ! put 
      -PRON- in the chair ! -PRON- have faint from ill - usage and exhaustion . " 

      -PRON- open -PRON- eye again . 

      " be -PRON- safe ? " -PRON- ask . " have -PRON- escape ? " 

      " -PRON- can not escape -PRON- , madam . " 

      " no , no , -PRON- do not mean -PRON- husband . Sir Henry ? be -PRON- safe ? " 

      " yes . " 

      " and the hound ? " 

      " -PRON- be dead . " 

      -PRON- give a long sigh of satisfaction . 

      " thank God ! thank God ! oh , this villain ! see how -PRON- have treat -PRON- ! " 
      -PRON- shoot -PRON- arm out from -PRON- sleeve , and -PRON- see with horror that 
      -PRON- be all mottle with bruise . " but this be nothing -- nothing ! -PRON- 
      be -PRON- mind and soul that -PRON- have torture and defile . -PRON- could endure 
      -PRON- all , ill - usage , solitude , a life of deception , everything , as long 
      as -PRON- could still cling to the hope that -PRON- have -PRON- love , but now -PRON- 
      know that in this also -PRON- have be -PRON- dupe and -PRON- tool . " -PRON- break 
      into passionate sobbing as -PRON- speak . 

      " -PRON- bear -PRON- no good will , madam , " say Holmes . " tell -PRON- then where 
      -PRON- shall find -PRON- . if -PRON- have ever aid -PRON- in evil , help -PRON- now 
      and so atone . " 

      " there be but one place where -PRON- can have flee , " -PRON- answer . " there 
      be an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the mire . -PRON- be 
      there that -PRON- keep -PRON- hound and there also -PRON- have make preparation 
      so that -PRON- may have a refuge . that be where -PRON- would fly . " 

      the fog - bank lie like white wool against the window . Holmes hold the 
      lamp towards -PRON- . 

      " see , " say -PRON- . " no one could find -PRON- way into the Grimpen Mire 
      to - night . " 

      -PRON- laugh and clap -PRON- hand . -PRON- eye and tooth gleam with 
      fierce merriment . 

      " -PRON- may find -PRON- way in , but never out , " -PRON- cry . " how can -PRON- see 
      the guide wand to - night ? -PRON- plant -PRON- together , -PRON- and -PRON- , to 
      mark the pathway through the mire . oh , if -PRON- could only have pluck 
      -PRON- out to - day . then indeed -PRON- would have have -PRON- at -PRON- mercy ! " 

      -PRON- be evident to -PRON- that all pursuit be in vain until the fog have 
      lift . meanwhile -PRON- leave Lestrade in possession of the house while 
      Holmes and -PRON- go back with the baronet to Baskerville Hall . the 
      story of the Stapletons could no longer be withhold from -PRON- , but -PRON- 
      take the blow bravely when -PRON- learn the truth about the woman whom 
      -PRON- have love . but the shock of the night 's adventure have shatter 
      -PRON- nerve , and before morning -PRON- lie delirious in a high fever , 
      under the care of Dr. Mortimer . the two of -PRON- be destine to 
      travel together round the world before Sir Henry have become once more 
      the hale , hearty man that -PRON- have be before -PRON- become master of that 
      ill - omen estate . 

      and now -PRON- come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular narrative , 
      in which -PRON- have try to make the reader share those dark fear and 
      vague surmise which cloud -PRON- life so long and end in so tragic 
      a manner . on the morning after the death of the hound the fog have 
      lift and -PRON- be guide by Mrs. Stapleton to the point where -PRON- 
      have find a pathway through the bog . -PRON- help -PRON- to realize the 
      horror of this woman 's life when -PRON- see the eagerness and joy with 
      which -PRON- lay -PRON- on -PRON- husband 's track . -PRON- leave -PRON- standing upon 
      the thin peninsula of firm , peaty soil which taper out into the 
      widespread bog . from the end of -PRON- a small wand plant here and 
      there show where the path zigzag from tuft to tuft of rush 
      among those green - scum pit and foul quagmire which bar the 
      way to the stranger . rank reed and lush , slimy water - plant send an 
      odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour onto -PRON- face , while a 
      false step plunge -PRON- more than once thigh - deep into the dark , 
      quiver mire , which shake for yard in soft undulation around -PRON- 
      foot . -PRON- tenacious grip pluck at -PRON- heel as -PRON- walk , and when 
      -PRON- sink into -PRON- -PRON- be as if some malignant hand be tug -PRON- down 
      into those obscene depth , so grim and purposeful be the clutch in 
      which -PRON- hold -PRON- . once only -PRON- see a trace that someone have pass 
      that perilous way before -PRON- . from amid a tuft of cotton grass which 
      bore -PRON- up out of the slime some dark thing be project . Holmes 
      sink to -PRON- waist as -PRON- step from the path to seize -PRON- , and have -PRON- 
      not be there to drag -PRON- out -PRON- could never have set -PRON- foot upon 
      firm land again . -PRON- hold an old black boot in the air . " meyer , 
      Toronto , " be print on the leather inside . 

      " -PRON- be worth a mud bath , " say -PRON- . " -PRON- be -PRON- friend Sir Henry 's 
      miss boot . " 

      " throw there by Stapleton in -PRON- flight . " 

      " exactly . -PRON- retain -PRON- in -PRON- hand after use -PRON- to set the hound 
      upon the track . -PRON- flee when -PRON- know the game be up , still clutch 
      -PRON- . and -PRON- hurl -PRON- away at this point of -PRON- flight . -PRON- know at 
      least that -PRON- come so far in safety . " 

      but more than that -PRON- be never destine to know , though there be 
      much which -PRON- may surmise . there be no chance of find footstep 
      in the mire , for the rise mud ooze swiftly in upon -PRON- , but as -PRON- 
      at last reach firm ground beyond the morass -PRON- all look eagerly 
      for -PRON- . but no slight sign of -PRON- ever meet -PRON- eye . if the 
      earth tell a true story , then Stapleton never reach that island of 
      refuge towards which -PRON- struggle through the fog upon that last 
      night . somewhere in the heart of the great Grimpen Mire , down in the 
      foul slime of the huge morass which have suck -PRON- in , this cold and 
      cruel - hearted man be forever bury . 

      many trace -PRON- find of -PRON- in the bog - girt island where -PRON- have hide 
      -PRON- savage ally . a huge driving - wheel and a shaft half - fill with 
      rubbish show the position of an abandon mine . beside -PRON- be the 
      crumble remain of the cottage of the miner , drive away no doubt 
      by the foul reek of the surround swamp . in one of these a staple 
      and chain with a quantity of gnawed bone show where the animal have 
      be confine . a skeleton with a tangle of brown hair adhere to -PRON- 
      lie among the debris . 

      " a dog ! " say Holmes . " by Jove , a curly - haired spaniel . Poor Mortimer 
      will never see -PRON- pet again . well , -PRON- do not know that this place 
      contain any secret which -PRON- have not already fathom . -PRON- could hide 
      -PRON- hound , but -PRON- could not hush -PRON- voice , and hence come those 
      cry which even in daylight be not pleasant to hear . on an 
      emergency -PRON- could keep the hound in the out - house at Merripit , but 
      -PRON- be always a risk , and -PRON- be only on the supreme day , which -PRON- 
      regard as the end of all -PRON- effort , that -PRON- dare do -PRON- . this 
      paste in the tin be no doubt the luminous mixture with which the 
      creature be daub . -PRON- be suggest , of course , by the story of the 
      family hell - hound , and by the desire to frighten old Sir Charles to 
      death . no wonder the poor devil of a convict run and scream , even 
      as -PRON- friend do , and as -PRON- -PRON- may have do , when -PRON- see 
      such a creature bound through the darkness of the moor upon -PRON- 
      track . -PRON- be a cunning device , for , apart from the chance of drive 
      -PRON- victim to -PRON- death , what peasant would venture to inquire too 
      closely into such a creature should -PRON- get sight of -PRON- , as many have 
      do , upon the moor ? -PRON- say -PRON- in London , Watson , and -PRON- say -PRON- again 
      now , that never yet have -PRON- help to hunt down a more dangerous man 
      than -PRON- who be lie yonder"--he sweep -PRON- long arm towards the huge 
      mottled expanse of green - splotched bog which stretch away until -PRON- 
      merge into the russet slope of the moor . 





           CHAPTER XV 
           A Retrospection 


      -PRON- be the end of November and Holmes and -PRON- sit , upon a raw and foggy 
      night , on either side of a blaze fire in -PRON- sitting - room in Baker 
      Street . since the tragic upshot of -PRON- visit to Devonshire -PRON- have 
      be engage in two affair of the utmost importance , in the first of 
      which -PRON- have expose the atrocious conduct of Colonel Upwood in 
      connection with the famous card scandal of the Nonpareil Club , while 
      in the second -PRON- have defend the unfortunate Mme . montpensi from 
      the charge of murder which hang over -PRON- in connection with the death 
      of -PRON- step - daughter , Mlle . Carere , the young lady who , as -PRON- will be 
      remember , be find six month later alive and married in New York . 
      -PRON- friend be in excellent spirit over the success which have 
      attend a succession of difficult and important case , so that -PRON- be 
      able to induce -PRON- to discuss the detail of the Baskerville mystery . 
      -PRON- have wait patiently for the opportunity , for -PRON- be aware that -PRON- 
      would never permit case to overlap , and that -PRON- clear and logical 
      mind would not be draw from -PRON- present work to dwell upon memory 
      of the past . Sir Henry and Dr. Mortimer be , however , in London , on 
      -PRON- way to that long voyage which have be recommend for the 
      restoration of -PRON- shatter nerve . -PRON- have call upon -PRON- that 
      very afternoon , so that -PRON- be natural that the subject should come 
      up for discussion . 

      " the whole course of event , " say Holmes , " from the point of view of 
      the man who call -PRON- Stapleton be simple and direct , although 
      to -PRON- , who have no mean in the beginning of know the motive of 
      -PRON- action and could only learn part of the fact , -PRON- all appear 
      exceedingly complex . -PRON- have have the advantage of two conversation 
      with Mrs. Stapleton , and the case have now be so entirely clear up 
      that -PRON- be not aware that there be anything which have remain a 
      secret to -PRON- . -PRON- will find a few note upon the matter under the 
      head b in -PRON- indexed list of case . " 

      " perhaps -PRON- would kindly give -PRON- a sketch of the course of event 
      from memory . " 

      " certainly , though -PRON- can not guarantee that -PRON- carry all the fact in 
      -PRON- mind . intense mental concentration have a curious way of blot 
      out what have pass . the barrister who have -PRON- case at -PRON- finger ' 
      end , and be able to argue with an expert upon -PRON- own subject find 
      that a week or two of the court will drive -PRON- all out of -PRON- head 
      once more . so each of -PRON- case displace the last , and Mlle . Carere 
      have blur -PRON- recollection of Baskerville Hall . to - morrow some other 
      little problem may be submit to -PRON- notice which will in turn 
      dispossess the fair french lady and the infamous Upwood . so far as 
      the case of the Hound go , however , -PRON- will give -PRON- the course of 
      event as nearly as -PRON- can , and -PRON- will suggest anything which -PRON- may 
      have forget . 

      " -PRON- inquiry show beyond all question that the family portrait do 
      not lie , and that this fellow be indeed a Baskerville . -PRON- be a son 
      of that Rodger Baskerville , the young brother of Sir Charles , who 
      flee with a sinister reputation to South America , where -PRON- be say 
      to have die unmarried . -PRON- do , as a matter of fact , marry , and have 
      one child , this fellow , whose real name be the same as -PRON- father 's . 
      -PRON- marry Beryl Garcia , one of the beauty of Costa Rica , and , 
      have purloin a considerable sum of public money , -PRON- change -PRON- 
      name to Vandeleur and flee to England , where -PRON- establish a school 
      in the east of Yorkshire . -PRON- reason for attempt this special line 
      of business be that -PRON- have strike up an acquaintance with a 
      consumptive tutor upon the voyage home , and that -PRON- have use this 
      man 's ability to make the undertaking a success . Fraser , the tutor , 
      die however , and the school which have begin well sink from disrepute 
      into infamy . the Vandeleurs find -PRON- convenient to change -PRON- name 
      to Stapleton , and -PRON- bring the remain of -PRON- fortune , -PRON- scheme 
      for the future , and -PRON- taste for entomology to the south of England . 
      -PRON- learn at the British Museum that -PRON- be a recognize authority 
      upon the subject , and that the name of Vandeleur have be permanently 
      attach to a certain moth which -PRON- have , in -PRON- Yorkshire day , be 
      the first to describe . 

      " -PRON- now come to that portion of -PRON- life which have prove to be of 
      such intense interest to -PRON- . the fellow have evidently make inquiry 
      and find that only two life intervene between -PRON- and a valuable 
      estate . when -PRON- go to devonshire -PRON- plan be , -PRON- believe , 
      exceedingly hazy , but that -PRON- mean mischief from the first be 
      evident from the way in which -PRON- take -PRON- wife with -PRON- in the 
      character of -PRON- sister . the idea of use -PRON- as a decoy be clearly 
      already in -PRON- mind , though -PRON- may not have be certain how the 
      detail of -PRON- plot be to be arrange . -PRON- mean in the end to have 
      the estate , and -PRON- be ready to use any tool or run any risk for that 
      end . -PRON- first act be to establish -PRON- as near to -PRON- ancestral 
      home as -PRON- could , and -PRON- second be to cultivate a friendship with 
      Sir Charles Baskerville and with the neighbour . 

      " the baronet -PRON- tell -PRON- about the family hound , and so prepared 
      the way for -PRON- own death . Stapleton , as -PRON- will continue to call -PRON- , 
      know that the old man 's heart be weak and that a shock would kill 
      -PRON- . so much -PRON- have learn from Dr. Mortimer . -PRON- have hear also that 
      Sir Charles be superstitious and have take this grim legend very 
      seriously . -PRON- ingenious mind instantly suggest a way by which the 
      baronet could be do to death , and yet -PRON- would be hardly possible 
      to bring home the guilt to the real murderer . 

      " have conceive the idea -PRON- proceed to carry -PRON- out with 
      considerable finesse . an ordinary schemer would have be content to 
      work with a savage hound . the use of artificial mean to make the 
      creature diabolical be a flash of genius upon -PRON- part . the dog -PRON- 
      buy in London from Ross and Mangles , the dealer in Fulham Road . 
      -PRON- be the strong and most savage in -PRON- possession . -PRON- bring 
      -PRON- down by the North Devon line and walk a great distance over the 
      moor so as to get -PRON- home without excite any remark . -PRON- have 
      already on -PRON- insect hunt learn to penetrate the Grimpen Mire , 
      and so have find a safe hiding - place for the creature . here -PRON- 
      kennel -PRON- and wait -PRON- chance . 

      " but -PRON- be some time come . the old gentleman could not be decoy 
      outside of -PRON- ground at night . several time Stapleton lurk about 
      with -PRON- hound , but without avail . -PRON- be during these fruitless 
      quest that -PRON- , or rather -PRON- ally , be see by peasant , and that 
      the legend of the demon dog receive a new confirmation . -PRON- have hope 
      that -PRON- wife may lure Sir Charles to -PRON- ruin , but here -PRON- prove 
      unexpectedly independent . -PRON- would not endeavour to entangle the old 
      gentleman in a sentimental attachment which may deliver -PRON- over to 
      -PRON- enemy . threat and even , -PRON- be sorry to say , blow refuse to move 
      -PRON- . -PRON- would have nothing to do with -PRON- , and for a time Stapleton 
      be at a deadlock . 

      " -PRON- find a way out of -PRON- difficulty through the chance that Sir 
      Charles , who have conceive a friendship for -PRON- , make -PRON- the 
      minister of -PRON- charity in the case of this unfortunate woman , Mrs. 
      Laura Lyons . by represent -PRON- as a single man -PRON- acquire 
      complete influence over -PRON- , and -PRON- give -PRON- to understand that in 
      the event of -PRON- obtain a divorce from -PRON- husband -PRON- would marry 
      -PRON- . -PRON- plan be suddenly bring to a head by -PRON- knowledge that 
      Sir Charles be about to leave the Hall on the advice of Dr. 
      Mortimer , with whose opinion -PRON- -PRON- pretend to coincide . -PRON- 
      must act at once , or -PRON- victim may get beyond -PRON- power . -PRON- 
      therefore put pressure upon Mrs. Lyons to write this letter , 
      implore the old man to give -PRON- an interview on the evening before 
      -PRON- departure for London . -PRON- then , by a specious argument , prevent 
      -PRON- from go , and so have the chance for which -PRON- have wait . 

      " drive back in the evening from Coombe Tracey -PRON- be in time to get 
      -PRON- hound , to treat -PRON- with -PRON- infernal paint , and to bring the 
      beast round to the gate at which -PRON- have reason to expect that -PRON- 
      would find the old gentleman wait . the dog , incite by -PRON- master , 
      spring over the wicket - gate and pursue the unfortunate baronet , who 
      flee scream down the Yew Alley . in that gloomy tunnel -PRON- must 
      indeed have be a dreadful sight to see that huge black creature , 
      with -PRON- flaming jaw and blaze eye , bound after -PRON- victim . -PRON- 
      fall dead at the end of the alley from heart disease and terror . the 
      hound have keep upon the grassy border while the baronet have run down 
      the path , so that no track but the man 's be visible . on see -PRON- 
      lie still the creature have probably approach to sniff at -PRON- , but 
      find -PRON- dead have turn away again . -PRON- be then that -PRON- leave the 
      print which be actually observe by Dr. Mortimer . the hound be 
      call off and hurry away to -PRON- lair in the Grimpen Mire , and a 
      mystery be leave which puzzle the authority , alarm the 
      country - side , and finally bring the case within the scope of -PRON- 
      observation . 

      " so much for the death of Sir Charles Baskerville . -PRON- perceive the 
      devilish cunning of -PRON- , for really -PRON- would be almost impossible to 
      make a case against the real murderer . -PRON- only accomplice be one 
      who could never give -PRON- away , and the grotesque , inconceivable 
      nature of the device only serve to make -PRON- more effective . both of 
      the woman concern in the case , Mrs. Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons , 
      be leave with a strong suspicion against Stapleton . Mrs. Stapleton 
      know that -PRON- have design upon the old man , and also of the existence 
      of the hound . Mrs. Lyons know neither of these thing , but have be 
      impress by the death occur at the time of an uncancelled 
      appointment which be only know to -PRON- . however , both of -PRON- be 
      under -PRON- influence , and -PRON- have nothing to fear from -PRON- . the first 
      half of -PRON- task be successfully accomplish but the more difficult 
      still remain . 

      " -PRON- be possible that Stapleton do not know of the existence of an 
      heir in Canada . in any case -PRON- would very soon learn -PRON- from -PRON- 
      friend Dr. Mortimer , and -PRON- be tell by the latter all detail about 
      the arrival of Henry Baskerville . Stapleton 's first idea be that 
      this young stranger from Canada may possibly be do to death in 
      London without come down to Devonshire at all . -PRON- distrust -PRON- 
      wife ever since -PRON- have refuse to help -PRON- in lay a trap for the 
      old man , and -PRON- dare not leave -PRON- long out of -PRON- sight for fear -PRON- 
      should lose -PRON- influence over -PRON- . -PRON- be for this reason that -PRON- 
      take -PRON- to London with -PRON- . -PRON- lodge , -PRON- find , at the Mexborough 
      Private Hotel , in Craven Street , which be actually one of those 
      call upon by -PRON- agent in search of evidence . here -PRON- keep -PRON- wife 
      imprison in -PRON- room while -PRON- , disguise in a beard , follow Dr. 
      Mortimer to Baker Street and afterwards to the station and to the 
      Northumberland Hotel . -PRON- wife have some inkling of -PRON- plan ; but -PRON- 
      have such a fear of -PRON- husband -- a fear found upon brutal 
      ill - treatment -- that -PRON- dare not write to warn the man whom -PRON- know 
      to be in danger . if the letter should fall into Stapleton 's hand -PRON- 
      own life would not be safe . eventually , as -PRON- know , -PRON- adopt the 
      expedient of cut out the word which would form the message , and 
      address the letter in a disguised hand . -PRON- reach the baronet , 
      and give -PRON- the first warning of -PRON- danger . 

      " -PRON- be very essential for Stapleton to get some article of Sir 
      Henry 's attire so that , in case -PRON- be drive to use the dog , -PRON- 
      may always have the mean of set -PRON- upon -PRON- track . with 
      characteristic promptness and audacity -PRON- set about this at once , and 
      -PRON- can not doubt that the boot or chamber - maid of the hotel be well 
      bribe to help -PRON- in -PRON- design . by chance , however , the first boot 
      which be procure for -PRON- be a new one and , therefore , useless for 
      -PRON- purpose . -PRON- then have -PRON- return and obtain another -- a most 
      instructive incident , since -PRON- prove conclusively to -PRON- mind that -PRON- 
      be deal with a real hound , as no other supposition could explain 
      this anxiety to obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new 
      one . the more outr and grotesque an incident be the more carefully 
      -PRON- deserve to be examine , and the very point which appear to 
      complicate a case be , when duly consider and scientifically 
      handle , the one which be most likely to elucidate -PRON- . 

      " then -PRON- have the visit from -PRON- friend next morning , shadow always 
      by Stapleton in the cab . from -PRON- knowledge of -PRON- room and of -PRON- 
      appearance , as well as from -PRON- general conduct , -PRON- be inclined to 
      think that Stapleton 's career of crime have be by no mean limit 
      to this single Baskerville affair . -PRON- be suggestive that during the 
      last three year there have be four considerable burglary in the 
      West Country , for none of which be any criminal ever arrest . the 
      last of these , at Folkestone Court , in May , be remarkable for the 
      cold - blooded pistoling of the page , who surprise the masked and 
      solitary burglar . -PRON- can not doubt that Stapleton recruit -PRON- wane 
      resource in this fashion , and that for year -PRON- have be a desperate 
      and dangerous man . 

      " -PRON- have an example of -PRON- readiness of resource that morning when -PRON- 
      get away from -PRON- so successfully , and also of -PRON- audacity in send 
      back -PRON- own name to -PRON- through the cabman . from that moment -PRON- 
      understand that -PRON- have take over the case in London , and that 
      therefore there be no chance for -PRON- there . -PRON- return to Dartmoor 
      and await the arrival of the baronet . " 

      " one moment ! " say I. " -PRON- have , no doubt , describe the sequence of 
      event correctly , but there be one point which -PRON- have leave 
      unexplained . what become of the hound when -PRON- master be in London ? " 

      " -PRON- have give some attention to this matter and -PRON- be undoubtedly of 
      importance . there can be no question that Stapleton have a confidant , 
      though -PRON- be unlikely that -PRON- ever place -PRON- in -PRON- power by 
      share all -PRON- plan with -PRON- . there be an old manservant at 
      Merripit House , whose name be Anthony . -PRON- connection with the 
      stapleton can be trace for several year , as far back as the 
      schoolmastere day , so that -PRON- must have be aware that -PRON- master 
      and mistress be really husband and wife . this man have disappear 
      and have escape from the country . -PRON- be suggestive that Anthony be 
      not a common name in England , while Antonio be so in all spanish or 
      spanish - american country . the man , like Mrs. Stapleton -PRON- , 
      speak good English , but with a curious lisping accent . -PRON- have -PRON- 
      see this old man cross the Grimpen Mire by the path which Stapleton 
      have mark out . -PRON- be very probable , therefore , that in the absence 
      of -PRON- master -PRON- be -PRON- who care for the hound , though -PRON- may never 
      have know the purpose for which the beast be use . 

      " the Stapletons then go down to Devonshire , whither -PRON- be soon 
      follow by Sir Henry and -PRON- . one word now as to how -PRON- stand -PRON- 
      at that time . -PRON- may possibly recur to -PRON- memory that when -PRON- 
      examine the paper upon which the print word be fasten -PRON- make 
      a close inspection for the water - mark . in do so -PRON- hold -PRON- within a 
      few inch of -PRON- eye , and be conscious of a faint smell of the 
      scent know as white jessamine . there be seventy - five perfume , 
      which -PRON- be very necessary that a criminal expert should be able to 
      distinguish from each other , and case have more than once within -PRON- 
      own experience depend upon -PRON- prompt recognition . the scent 
      suggest the presence of a lady , and already -PRON- thought begin to 
      turn towards the Stapletons . thus -PRON- have make certain of the hound , 
      and have guess at the criminal before ever -PRON- go to the west 
      country . 

      " -PRON- be -PRON- game to watch Stapleton . -PRON- be evident , however , that -PRON- 
      could not do this if -PRON- be with -PRON- , since -PRON- would be keenly on -PRON- 
      guard . -PRON- deceive everybody , therefore , -PRON- include , and -PRON- come 
      down secretly when -PRON- be suppose to be in London . -PRON- hardship be 
      not so great as -PRON- imagine , though such trifling detail must never 
      interfere with the investigation of a case . -PRON- stay for the most 
      part at Coombe Tracey , and only use the hut upon the moor when -PRON- 
      be necessary to be near the scene of action . Cartwright have come 
      down with -PRON- , and in -PRON- disguise as a country boy -PRON- be of great 
      assistance to -PRON- . -PRON- be dependent upon -PRON- for food and clean linen . 
      when -PRON- be watch Stapleton , Cartwright be frequently watch 
      -PRON- , so that -PRON- be able to keep -PRON- hand upon all the string . 

      " -PRON- have already tell -PRON- that -PRON- report reach -PRON- rapidly , be 
      forward instantly from Baker Street to Coombe Tracey . -PRON- be of 
      great service to -PRON- , and especially that one incidentally truthful 
      piece of biography of Stapleton 's . -PRON- be able to establish the 
      identity of the man and the woman and know at last exactly how -PRON- 
      stand . the case have be considerably complicate through the 
      incident of the escape convict and the relation between -PRON- and the 
      barrymore . this also -PRON- clear up in a very effective way , though 
      -PRON- have already come to the same conclusion from -PRON- own observation . 

      " by the time that -PRON- discover -PRON- upon the moor -PRON- have a complete 
      knowledge of the whole business , but -PRON- have not a case which could go 
      to a jury . even Stapleton 's attempt upon Sir Henry that night which 
      end in the death of the unfortunate convict do not help -PRON- much in 
      prove murder against -PRON- man . there seem to be no alternative but 
      to catch -PRON- red - handed , and to do so -PRON- have to use Sir Henry , alone 
      and apparently unprotecte , as a bait . -PRON- do so , and at the cost of 
      a severe shock to -PRON- client -PRON- succeed in complete -PRON- case and 
      drive Stapleton to -PRON- destruction . that Sir Henry should have be 
      expose to this be , -PRON- must confess , a reproach to -PRON- management of 
      the case , but -PRON- have no means of foresee the terrible and 
      paralyze spectacle which the beast present , nor could -PRON- predict 
      the fog which enable -PRON- to burst upon -PRON- at such short notice . -PRON- 
      succeed in -PRON- object at a cost which both the specialist and Dr. 
      Mortimer assure -PRON- will be a temporary one . a long journey may enable 
      -PRON- friend to recover not only from -PRON- shatter nerve but also 
      from -PRON- wound feeling . -PRON- love for the lady be deep and 
      sincere , and to -PRON- the sad part of all this black business be 
      that -PRON- should have be deceive by -PRON- . 

      " -PRON- only remain to indicate the part which -PRON- have play 
      throughout . there can be no doubt that Stapleton exercise an 
      influence over -PRON- which may have be love or may have be fear , or 
      very possibly both , since -PRON- be by no mean incompatible emotion . 
      -PRON- be , at least , absolutely effective . at -PRON- command -PRON- consent 
      to pass as -PRON- sister , though -PRON- find the limit of -PRON- power over 
      -PRON- when -PRON- endeavour to make -PRON- the direct accessory to murder . 
      -PRON- be ready to warn Sir Henry so far as -PRON- could without 
      implicate -PRON- husband , and again and again -PRON- try to do so . 
      Stapleton -PRON- seem to have be capable of jealousy , and when -PRON- 
      see the baronet pay court to the lady , even though -PRON- be part of 
      -PRON- own plan , still -PRON- could not help interrupt with a passionate 
      outburst which reveal the fiery soul which -PRON- self - contain 
      manner so cleverly conceal . by encourage the intimacy -PRON- make -PRON- 
      certain that Sir Henry would frequently come to Merripit House and 
      that -PRON- would sooner or later get the opportunity which -PRON- desire . 
      on the day of the crisis , however , -PRON- wife turn suddenly against 
      -PRON- . -PRON- have learn something of the death of the convict , and -PRON- 
      know that the hound be be keep in the out - house on the evening 
      that Sir Henry be come to dinner . -PRON- tax -PRON- husband with -PRON- 
      intend crime , and a furious scene follow , in which -PRON- show -PRON- 
      for the first time that -PRON- have a rival in -PRON- love . -PRON- fidelity 
      turn in an instant to bitter hatred and -PRON- see that -PRON- would 
      betray -PRON- . -PRON- tie -PRON- up , therefore , that -PRON- may have no chance 
      of warn Sir Henry , and -PRON- hope , no doubt , that when the whole 
      country - side put down the baronet 's death to the curse of -PRON- family , 
      as -PRON- certainly would do , -PRON- could win -PRON- wife back to accept an 
      accomplish fact and to keep silent upon what -PRON- know . in this -PRON- 
      fancy that in any case -PRON- make a miscalculation , and that , if -PRON- have 
      not be there , -PRON- doom would none the less have be seal . a 
      woman of spanish blood do not condone such an injury so lightly . 
      and now , -PRON- dear Watson , without refer to -PRON- note , -PRON- can not give 
      -PRON- a more detailed account of this curious case . -PRON- do not know that 
      anything essential have be leave unexplained . " 

      " -PRON- could not hope to frighten Sir Henry to death as -PRON- have do the 
      old uncle with -PRON- bogie hound . " 

      " the beast be savage and half - starve . if -PRON- appearance do not 
      frighten -PRON- victim to death , at least -PRON- would paralyze the 
      resistance which may be offer . " 

      " no doubt . there only remain one difficulty . if Stapleton come into 
      the succession , how could -PRON- explain the fact that -PRON- , the heir , have 
      be live unannounced under another name so close to the property ? 
      how could -PRON- claim -PRON- without cause suspicion and inquiry ? " 

      " -PRON- be a formidable difficulty , and -PRON- fear that -PRON- ask too much when 
      -PRON- expect -PRON- to solve -PRON- . the past and the present be within the 
      field of -PRON- inquiry , but what a man may do in the future be a hard 
      question to answer . Mrs. Stapleton have hear -PRON- husband discuss the 
      problem on several occasion . there be three possible course . -PRON- 
      may claim the property from South America , establish -PRON- identity 
      before the british authority there and so obtain the fortune 
      without ever come to England at all ; or -PRON- may adopt an elaborate 
      disguise during the short time that -PRON- nee be in London ; or , again , 
      -PRON- may furnish an accomplice with the proof and paper , put 
      -PRON- in as heir , and retain a claim upon some proportion of -PRON- 
      income . -PRON- can not doubt from what -PRON- know of -PRON- that -PRON- would have 
      find some way out of the difficulty . and now , -PRON- dear Watson , -PRON- 
      have have some week of severe work , and for one evening , -PRON- think , -PRON- 
      may turn -PRON- thought into more pleasant channel . -PRON- have a box for 
      ' Les Huguenots . ' have -PRON- hear the De Reszkes ? may -PRON- trouble -PRON- 
      then to be ready in half an hour , and -PRON- can stop at Marcini 's for a 
      little dinner on the way ? " 









      ---------- 
      this text be provide to -PRON- " as - be " without any warranty . no 
      warranty of any kind , express or imply , be make to -PRON- as to 
      the text or any medium -PRON- may be on , include but not limited to 
      warranty of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose . 

      this text be format from various free ASCII and HTML variant . 
      see http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and 
      additional information about -PRON- . 






 